Video Link: https://youtu.be/j0Y4Yi6YQsk

Video Motion: This House Supports a decline in global reliance on the dollar.

Video Title: Belgrade WUDC 2022 Open Grand Final

Transcript:
 Thank you. Hi, everyone. If  you're watching the stream, if  you're watching from, well, I  guess mainly the stream or if  you're one of the judges,  welcome to the grand final of  this year's World University  Spitting Championships. My name  is Tekwe and I'm the chair for  the round. Um my nickname on  the tab is within the debate as  made popularized by myself. And  joining me on the panel, we  have a number of of really  distinguished judges. So,  representing us from the CA  team and in time on a tradition  with nicknames of their own, we  have Juanita, Where is the  Draw, Hinkapi, Restrainable,  and Nolutando nicknames,  really? Ponono. But also we  have a number of other judges  who I want to celebrate because  of their excellent performance  to this point and so joining me  on the panel are Lucy Samova,  Pranav Kagalka, Tamki Nawa,  Udai Kamas, Ilya Ivanasevic and  Emery Taylor. Uh we are not the  stars of the show. Those would  be the four teams ahead of us  and so I'd like to give a big  welcome to our four teams  contesting the grand final. In  opening government, we have  Ateneo the Manila A. In opening  opposition, we have Brack A, in  closing government, we have  Princeton B, and in closing  opposition, we have NUS A. Uh  I'd like each team to just take  a moment to introduce  themselves, express their  preferred gender pronouns if  you would like to and just, you  know, put yourselves out there  for everyone to celebrate you  and know that you've existed.  Uh that you know, you're here  in this grand final which can  be hard to do when you're  online but definitely not  impossible. So, once again, in  opening government, Ateneo the  Manila would like to do some  introductions. Hi, I'm David.  Uh speaking first, I have no  preferred gender pronouns. Uh  Yeah, I mean, I'm great. Nice  debating. Let's go. Hello, my  name is Mika. I'll be speaking  second. I have no preference as  well and yeah, go debating. In  opening opposition, once again,  brack A. Hi, my name is Sajid.  I'll be speaking first, no  preferences. Hi, my name is  Shoradiv. I'll be speaking  second, no preference in  pronoun. Best of luck to  everyone. In closing  government, Princeton B. Craig  speaking first, he, please.  And in closing opposition, NUS  A. I, the ongoing first, no  preference. Hi, Sean going  second, no preference. Great,  well, without further ado, I  think that's everything we need  to do. Wish all teams the best  of luck. Have a great deal of  fun. Um, and to open up the  debate, I'd like to welcome the  Prime Minister. Here, here.  Hello, can I be heard? Uh yes.  Alright, just give me one  second to get everything in  place.  I had to turn off the aircon  because it is making a wishing  noise that I mean it probably  wouldn't be the speech but it's  a little annoying. Okay. This  is not my actual background.  Okay. Uh yeah, POI is in the  chat. I will start my speech in  Three. Two.  One, the world's reliance of  the dollar is unquestionably a  bad thing. It has exposed the  global economy to systemic risk  time and time again and  moreover has made it hard for  countries to employ policies  that are needed for crisis  response for the individual  economies that will have  different requirements from the  dollar. In this speech, first  we will do some setup. So the  dollar currently manifests its  global reliance in three ways.  One, it is the main currency of  international reserve. It is a  store of value by which you use  to shore up your income and  generally it's also used  primarily for international  transactions. It's also  secondly, the main currency of  lending and thirdly, is that a  very large amount of countries  have either accepted it as  their currency directly or peg  their currency to the dollar in  some form. We want to highlight  that as a historical note this  is not a consensual activity.  For many of the poors of the  poor whom we made poor, this  was a requirement for Betan  Woods Institutes in order for  you and for them to provide you  loans in uplift you out of  poverty. This is a dramatic  decline in an autonomy for  currency in the global economy.  What will it be replaced by? We  think there are variety of  plausible options individual  nations, central banks will use  to determine the value of their  own currency. We think they  will likely peg it to a variety  of other things when they need  strength or leave it floating  if they feel comfortable in its  stability. It's possible that  they peg it to a basket of  other currencies, potentially  the R and B, the yen, the  pound, the Euro, or they peg  into a commodity that is vital  to their industry like gold. We  don't have to explain only one  but that it is far better to  have the possibility or the  optionality of other options.  Why is this likely to manifest  in this way where countries  have choice and not where  they're forced to pick one  other option This is because  the decline currently manifests  as the current global  tightening cycle pushing for  countries to replace the  reserves gradually because the  fact that obviously it's  introducing massive amounts of  risk to their own country and  price stability is in shambles  for most countries around the  world. So essentially the  current global tightening cycle  is something the countries want  to opt out of or try and avoid.  And they will try and slowly  replace their international  reserves with a variety of  their options. And this also  aligns with the existing  efforts of broader  international push for a long  time to substitute the dollar  or augment it with other  countries currencies like the  IMF special drawing rights for  example We think these other  options will be expanded in  order to allow countries to  have it. So we just think this  is likely because it's  obviously best, it's safest,  and safest for these countries.  And just their existing efforts  that we think they can  capitalize on already. Two  arguments in this speech. First  of all, systemic risk. How is  systemic risk introduced by a  global reliance in the dollar?  The US is one of the most  deregulated financial sectors  in the world. Exposed to  significant lobbying from large  groups since the Reagan area to  consistently expose it to  financial shock in the 90s and  the 2000s all the way to now.  Countries specifically the  Central Bank and the US has  cater to these institutions as  particularly with the revolving  door in the Federal Reserve  where they go back into  industry and benefit off of the  chaos that they've made. Right  now, even during Covid, we've  not felt it. But so many firms  are over leveraged banks giving  out precipitous amounts of  non-performing loans. And  countries that are pegged or  depend on the dollar are  exposed to this risk. Why does  this risk manifest because of  the world's global reliance on  the dollar? And why does it  expand to other countries?  Typically, because everyone's  currency is related to their  international reserves and they  have to settle things like  imports and exports in dollar.  They have to convert dollar  price stability is reliant on  dollar and all these things.  Generally speaking, when the US  goes down or when the US  experiences harm, all these  other countries experience harm  due to the contagion effect of  the dollar. But so the  contender factual would be  presuming that you believe are  alternative, the countries are  substantially more autonomous.  This gives them a variety of  other options. Number one, they  have the ability to hedge  currency rift. So if the US has  experienced substantially more  price instability, then they're  able to hedge it to other  currencies like the Euro or the  Yen. Moreover, this crisis  response is also particularly  tailored to their side. So if  they're okay with, you know,  pride the currency and fading  of the currency going down,  they can stick with some  mixture of currencies that is  best for them. But moreover,  the ability for you to hedge in  the first place also improves  the confidence that many  investors have in emerging  economies and emerging markets.  Finally, I just also want to  point out that crisis response  on opposition side is very,  very expensive and very, very  difficult because they're  forced to pay back these goods,  they're forced to pay back  these loans, and they're forced  to pay back priceability by  forcing down their individual  currencies in dollars, which  can get very, very expensive  particularly that's already  quite tough. If the US is a  developed economy, it's already  quite rich. So what is the harm  of exposing the world to  systemic risk? I mean, I think  this should be a little bit  obvious that most countries  around the world do not like  experiencing systemic risk. And  as a direct consequence, they  are most likely to experience  things like economic collapse  when the US experiences it  well. The counter factual  obviously was that the US would  have that current would have  that crisis of currency or the  crisis of reliance on the  dollar. Solely confined to that  country as well. Or the very  least the shock waves of that  would be slow enough such in  other countries would be able  to adjust. over other countries  are hamstrung and their ability  to respond to this economic  crisis. So we make it  substantially cheaper for them  to adopt. This has a low this  is a gigantic amount of impacts  towards people on the ground.  It means that they're more able  to pay for food. It means that  priceability means investors  stay in the country. For  investments and flee the  country. Essentially people  don't starve. As a direct  consequence economies are  structurally stabler and  happier for the future in the  long term. I'll move on to the  second country. Uh second  argument that even if the US is  not exposed to systemic risk  just that the US has a very  very drastically different  economic strategy and monet  approach to things means that  other countries have a much  harder time surviving and doing  well. But before that I'll take  a PY from CO. No regret. Okay,  I think it's soft debating to  say that there are host of  other alternatives. What is the  most likely thing for specific  countries to take? So, if  you're a country near China,  what do you think their foreign  currency reserve will look  like? The basket option because  they don't want to hedge so  much. So, presumably, if they  think it's a bad idea to put  all their money in China, you  might make arguments to that  effect, then they will likely  put some money in the end as  well, maybe the pound. So,  moreover, we also think  secondarily, it is much harder  for countries to enact an  economic strategy that is best  for their country. It is  difficult for them to pay for  the debts because the dollar is  much more expensive. Some  countries who want to increase  the value of their currencies  to import, while others  decrease the value of their  currency to export. This  affects the price of goods in  their country, Essentially  jettisoning price stability in  their country. A good example  of this is the US announcing  gigantic rate hikes recently  and forcing central banks all  over Asia to follow three types  of their own. Leading the  massive outflows of foreign  investment, businesses  collapsing and unable to  survive unnecessary loans in  times of crisis. Because the US  was ready for rate hikes. But  other countries were not. This  forces essentially  macroeconomic tightening cycles  all around the world if they  don't want their currency to  collapse in terms of price.  Because the fact that their  price ability is itself pegged  to the dollar already. Which  will necessarily different  directions in terms of monetary  policy and fiscal policy and  other countries will just  because their economies are  functionally different when it  comes to the approach that they  take to importing or exporting.  This means it's difficult for  them to change the value of  their currency. When America  takes the opposite direction,  which will make their approach  useless and potentially even  lead to things like stagnation  where they get the worst of  both worlds and they might need  to take additional measures  like going into further debt  which will worsen the economic  crisis potentially for the  future. Not all countries may  make good decisions sure. But  for the countries that have a  corrupt and incompetent central  bank, very little will actually  change. But for the vast  majority of countries incidents  are there to not get fired to  keep the economy stable and  they kick in. They are  hamstrung by the reliance on  the dollar. What is the broad  impact of this argument? It  means number one, the poorest  of the poor who are very very  different from the economy in  the United States are least  likely to be able to provide  for foreign direct investment  for the country. They're least  likely be able to keep  investors in. Which means that  the availability of services  like basic access to  electricity, water, food,  etcetera. Because of the loss  of price stability as well as  the loss ability to control  your own economy. As well as  just the loss of the ability to  keep the economy in the  direction that keeps them here.  Means that people on the ground  are again substantially more  exposed to are substantially  reduced in terms of access to  benefits and quality of life.  It means on the whole, the  global reliance on the dollar  has made things worse for  everyone and that's why we  support its change. Thank you.  Thank you very much. I'd like  to invite the next speaker, the  leader of the opposition to  open up the opposition case.  Yeah, yeah.  Can I be heard very clearly?  Yep. Just a sec.  Uh before I start my speech,  just want to say a huge shout  out to all the people  supporting us from Bangladesh.  We've been charged with a lot  of love. Uh we're a small  community that tries really  hard to do well at this  debating thing and I'm sure  this is just the beginning of a  wonderful journey and secondly,  I know I'm representing Brackno  and I'm really proud of that  but a huge shout out to the  institution that has, you know,  looked after me and for the  longest time and that's IBADU.  Uh this one's for you guys as  well. Thank you very much.  Cool. Um timer. phone? Though  my phone is a bit of a  Cool. Starting my speech in  three, two, one We won't be  soft. The first thing I'd like  to point out is the current  economic crisis that is  happening because the dollar  has strengthened. Is due to a  host of other factors that are  external to the US economy.  Things like COVID and the  supply shop it has created.  Things like the Ukraine war  that is intertwined with the  way in which demand and supply  globally has impacted the  economy. Has meant that a lot  of the things that you see as a  symptom now have deeper reasons  behind it. So I don't think  illustrations of just suffering  right now is good enough.  Reason of this motion pass we  also prefer that the dollar is  used by all countries around  the world. We're happy to  defend the norm of things like  Swift or things like preferring  credit cards from visa instead  of Chinese Union Pay. I'll talk  about three broad things.  First, why dollar is inherently  less volatile than any other  currency when pegged against.  Secondly, why one currency  within your foreign currency  reserve? IE, the dollar. It's  better than fracturing it into  a basket of reserves which  opening government would like  to defend. Third, why pegging  against the dollar is an  important foreign policy tool  that we ought to give the  United States. First, why is  dollar inherently more stable?  The first thing I'd like to  pause it is the US democratic  system has the biggest checks  and balances that make sure  that the dollar has a floating  value that is stable and  predictable. There are three  reasons under this. Number one,  the US is the biggest economy  in the world where it has  diversified into primary,  secondary, and tertiary  sectors. So, you have things  like oil in primary and  machines in secondary or even  service sector in the tertiary.  All of which means it is by far  the most diversified economy  where its currency if you peg  against means you have  inherently less risk. Number  two, democratic checks and  balances. The political  institutions, the autonomy of  the central bank all are  inherently more prone within  the United States. The only  thing OG says against this is  our regulation has failed for a  period of time. But even that  we've seen a lot of that  removed because of the failures  of 2 thousand 8 and the  recession it has caused. This  is because the political system  allows for you to recognize why  you suffered at that point in  time. Whole politicians  accountable and have  conversations about how you can  best mitigate that crisis going  forward. Which is why a lot of  regulation happened post two  thousand 8 simply because the  institutions of the United  States are stronger than  anywhere else. Third, assuming  all of this is not true. And  may be there is some level of  lobbying that happens within  the United States.  Predictability of the United  States is far higher. Why is  predictability important? This  is because currency value is  often based on hedging and on  speculation. So the fact that  you have access to  information from a very free  floating economy and you know  indices like S and P 500 or the  fact that politicians are  actively challenging each other  and talking and discussing  about where the economy is  headed. Or there are two really  powerful political parties that  are always going against each  other. Means there's always  access to information for you  to access and understand where  this currency is going. Why is  this comparatively worse in  their world? The first thing  I'd like to pause it is small  countries are unlikely to be  rational actors as they  themselves would like to posit.  This is  countries are nothing but an  amalgamation of politicians who  want to gain power within these  small countries who also have  weaker institutions in the  United States. What this means  is when you have like you know  promises from Russia or China  of really good economic inflow  in the short term that puts you  in power. You as an actor often  likely to trade off long term  economic risk. Because at that  point in time when your tenure  is over it's something you  don't need to care about.  That's why a lot of these small  countries around China have  systematically sided with them.  The  is because the norm is you have  to still use or pick yourself  against the US dollar. Your  foreign currency result was not  based on Yuan or Rubles. What  this means is pressures from  big actors means you might  still end up with one other  currencies, your foreign  currency reserve, except it  will be a far riskier economy  that you're pegged against.  First, because China and Russia  artificially controlled by the  government, the currency flow  is artificially controlled.  Which means although best case  scenario, you just don't have  information. How many of us  know what the Chinese  government is thinking or what  Putin is thinking? Or what is  step will be. That breeds  uncertainty and risk that makes  your currency far more  unstable. Number two, there is  less ability for you to hold  this government accountable in  those cases. Even if the  alternative is the European  Union may be that is an  alternative. It's unclear why  that is. A federal state where  the United States has control  over budgets of different  states and its problems means  your lack more able to control  risks within that. But you can  control what the Greek  government does which  inherently breeds risk. The  first argument proves  inherently it is likely the  foreign country reserve will be  on one currency instead of many  and when that happens the US is  inherently a better actor and  therefore the US dollar is  something we prefer. Second  argument, fracturing. We think  that the there's a increasing  likelihood that you will peg  your currency in a way in which  is really random. Which means  so evidence of the fact that  India wants to trade an Indian  rupees while Russia wants to  trade in Russian rupees. The  reason is the failure of the  dollar breeds insecurity. You  don't know what the next big  economy is. Is it Russia? Is it  China? It's hard to often  predict where the economy will  be five years down the line.  The second is often times there  are ways in which you are  caught in the struggle of  politics. That means you have  to have different actors cater  to at the same time. What this  means is on a worst case, you  will irrationally pick  different currencies and put  that as part of your basket.  Why is this really bad? The  first reason is, when you have  results in kinds of currencies,  you often make sure trade  becomes more difficult with  countries that don't have the  basket in those same amount of  currencies. So, say country A  pegs its reserves based on  robots. Country B pegs its  reserve based on the fracturing  or the way you diversify that  basket inherently creates more  risk when you have to trade  with each other because the  conversion steps happen at an  extra layer. So, you first  convert to Yuan, then you  convert to robots, then you  convert to the country you are  trading with. What ultimately  means is you have less free  trade between countries. Before  that, I'll take a PI from  closing. If the Chinese economy  is that unstable, wouldn't  countries be more likely to  choose the Euro than they would  D one? Um first, you need to  explain the incentives of EU to  diversify to the same extent as  China. Second, the politicians  within these small countries  and the way they interact.  That's analysis that you're  missing. So, the first thing  I'd like to pause it is free  trade becomes far more  difficult. When there are more  layers in the conversion  process of currencies. What  this means is comparative  advantage shrinks. The  alternative that we defend is  one US dollar that inherently  allows everyone to trade with  each other that minimize the  cost of international trade and  allows you to specialise which  improves your ability to export  and import and have efficiency  among economies. So fracturing  in and of itself is a bad  thing. Lastly, this is a tool  that the US uses as a tool of  global politics. So, the fact  that all countries have dollars  pegged to it allows the US to  sanction countries like why is  this important and why is this  an actor that we want  internationally? First, US has  internal accountability versus  any other actor. It has a  diversity of minorities that  care about global issues  because they are from those  countries or families there or  they consist of educated  liberals that care about  external issues. Chinese  populations or Russian  populations are unlikely to do  so to a greater degree. Further  reasons for this in DLO but  it's in it's evidently clear  that the dollar is less risky  than the alternatives. Very to  oppose. Thank you very much.  I'd like to welcome the Deputy  Prime Minister to continue the  case for opening government.  Hello, can I be heard? Uh yes.  Alright. great.  One moment  Put on the coat.  Hey, I'll start my speech in  three, two, one. First on the  stability of the dollar. On  face, I want you to note that  the stability of the dollar  does not mean that the economic  interest of the US necessarily  match those of all the other  nations that are pegged or used  the dollar. I, even if the  dollar is stable, the fact that  they want to increase the value  of their currency. Whereas many  developing nations seek to  decrease the value of their  currency in order to increase  the attractivity of their  exports. Means that just  because it is stable, does not  mean it is preferable. And all  the reasons that they an  opening opposition is why it's  so difficult to change and it  is up to the political interest  within the US. Make it such  that the autonomy that these  individual nations have are  never going to be accessed on  their side of the house.  Stability does not equal to  benefit. Secondly, they say  what do you peg it to? And that  all these other countries are  for some reasons so stupid and  irrational and therefore, they  just pick whatever comes their  way. The first thing I want to  note is that if this the  contact opening opposition  wants to deal in, any kind of  economic policy they pursue,  it's not likely to be very  smart and therefore, the change  is marginal side of the house.  But in the instances of these  economies have independent  central banks have shared  economic interests. And often  times economy to the main ways  in which politicians win an  election anyway and to be able  to determine their stability.  It is unclear to me why it is  so first. The the  diversification of currency  argument makes no sense. If you  peg it to the value of basket  of currencies. You have to  convert on every individual  currency in order to make  trade. You can just do it to  the country trading with. It is  a matter of the value. But  secondly is what do they peg it  to? Not only they assert they  make bad decisions with whom  they're going to peg it to. But  secondly is, I think their  assumptions that you just peg  it to China, you'll peg it to  Russia are uncomparative. Not  only, have these historically,  when the nations that are the  most blacks who respect the  economic trade, have imposed  the least restrictions with  respect to giving loans, and  therefore, unlikely to be the  ones that force you into this  kind of negotiation. But  secondly is, in a global  decline, where all these  countries may be, seek economic  interest in being able to have  UK currency to them. I would  say you restart competitive  process. In which in order for  countries to convince you to be  able to take on their currency  or to be able to put them  within your basket, it is much  more likely that favorable  trade negotiations, investment  within your country, and the  inflow of capital. And being  able to ensure the stock of  specific industries in this  country is how they are managed  to do that. The important  nuance here is that the point  in which the dollar was widely  adopted was Brown Tech 30s, 40s  in order to ensure the  widespread of the like button  woods institutions. And often  times it's a after World War  two where economies were  entirely desperate. I would say  the context and status quo  where there's likely more  leverage and autonomy for these  nations is where they are much  more likely to be able to make  a smart decision about this. So  they cannot pick such a  convenient context and say this  is going to be all the  countries and therefore we win  the debate that is not the  case. Thirdly, they say this is  an important tool within  international relations. The  first thing I want to be able  to note is that it is unclear  to me why the unlike unhampered  powered power of America. To be  able to make significant  decision with respect to  economic sanctions and how they  work is a good tool within  politics. The first thing I  want to be able to note is that  while some countries or  especially powerful nations can  afford sanctions, there are  many other nations that are  smaller and are unable to  meaningfully impact the nature  of sanctions, make a country as  big as Russia budge. But are  more likely to ensure that they  feel the effect of those  sanctions. So that they have  less trade, they have less  imports, etcetera. So it is not  a winning game for a lot of  these smaller nations. But they  are minimal impact on this  country. But at the same time  to take on the brunt of  increased tariffs, that will  take on the brunt of increased  prices of imports, etcetera.  And therefore, that is not fair  for them. But secondly, I don't  think that's a good thing. I  think if America wanted to  impose widespread sanctions on  another nation, it is much  better to be able to force that  through international and  multilateral organizations, or  being able to build consents  within all of these different  countries. Because it is  impossible for me to believe  that American international  relations like in their  interests, are always positive  in nature. A lot of the time,  they have sanctioned regimes  that or rather they have  sanctioned. Nations that have  simply disagreed with them and  favored other authoritarian  regimes with a lot or  significant amount of  hypocrisy. It is impossible for  me to believe that just being  able to do this is much better  than being able to choose from  myriad of alternatives coming  from opening government. What  am I going to argue in  extension? I want to explain  why the shift of many global  economies to trade and labor  exportation towards the US has  led to significant amounts of  exploitation for a lot of  development economies. But  before I move on, I'll take the  PUI from closing opposition.  Yeah, Nico, in a world where  these current countries are  using smaller currencies and a  variety of smaller currencies,  doesn't that decrease more  information and stability to  get out each of the choices  that they are making? Let's,  first of all, unclear to me as  to why that decreases the  amount of information. But  secondly, and so far as you  have more choices of that  currency, I think it is much  better for you to be able to do  so, yeah, in fact, I, I would  just make the argument that  this gives incentives for  mutual stability of the  economies of other countries.  And so far as you don't have to  rely on just the USBA stable.  But also ensuring surrounding  economies we trade with are  also stable. And therefore the  amount of investment that is  mutual within countries. The  amount and their ability to  loan and be able to give to  each other in periods of  economic crisis increases as  well. How have countries  reacted to the dependence on  the dollar? I think it's a  couple things. First these  they've significantly  redirected trade to either the  US or US like dollar using  economies. And the importance  of that is that while I think a  fair decision to make. It is  the decision that should be  made on how much can you sell  your goods for? How much are  you able to ensure that they  will have a large market and  therefore buy your products?  Because there are many other  good options for them to pick.  Like Europe, like China,  etcetera. In order for them to  be able to export their goods.  But the reason they do this is  because the large dependence on  the dollar means that you need  a significant amount of foreign  currency reserves in US dollar.  In order to keep your economy  afloat. And what that entails  is you have to shift the way  your economy works. In order to  receive those kinds of foreign  currency reserves. Rather than  what might be most strategic  for your economy as a  consequence. So that means that  when trade could have been more  favorable for you, when you  likely could have had the  greater ability to determine  your policy, you were unable to  do that because you need the  dollar as a consequence. And  this is also significantly  impacted. The ability of  loaning institutions in order  to ensure that you are also  receiving US dollars in loans,  but you also can't inflate the  value of your currency in order  to pay those loans off. And  therefore, the power that the  coercive power of the MF and of  the World Bank. As more and  more countries sign on, gets  more and more powerful as well.  And what they have often  entailed are neoliberal  policies that favor  exploitation to the US to the  detriment or exploitation from  the US. The detriment of  building up local industry. But  lastly, and the reason this  also bad, is that many  developing economies have  shifted to the exploitation of  talented and important labor  from their countries. Two work  in the US. And that's  important. Because the way  they, the reason they do that,  is because they want  remittances from the, the, like  wages they get to back to their  home country. And that's a bad  thing. Because for many  developing economies, what you  need is skilled and talented  labor to build up industries.  To move from manual labor and  primary industries to more  secondary service-based  tertiary industries. But when  they instead leave your country  and compete in the US, not only  do they not necessarily live  better off lives because it's a  greater amount of competition.  You strip away developing  economies of their way in which  they can develop by  diversifying industry.  Improving the nature of their  economy. Because they needed  the dollar. I'm very very proud  to propose.  Thank you very much Uh to  conclude the top half, I'd like  to welcome the DLO  am I audible, invisible? Yes  and yes. Thank you so much.  Just before starting, just a  disclaimer that given I work in  this line, my opinions are not  reflected in the speeches just  within the requirements of  competitive debating, but also  at the same time as the  Bangladesh community, I would  like to shout out to the Asian  and the Australian community  for making me feel like one of  their own. Um, really  incredibly grateful for that.  Um, with that being said, I'm  going to start this debate. The  reason open government is out  of this debate is because in  DPM, they claim stability is  not preferable. Three reasons  why this is not true. Number  one, if stability is something  that we already have under  ourselves they have conceded to  a certain extent by the way  means that a stable currency is  much easier to to hold a  standard again. So, for  example, controlling or  floating your currency against  one stable currency is far  easier. So, for example, if you  want to devalue your currency  in that particular sense, it's  easier to control it and hedge  it against the US dollar  because then you don't have to  care about how the UN is moving  or the Euro is moving or the  pound is moving and so on and  so forth. One standard is much  better in terms of stability  and so on and so. Secondly,  markets are far more  predictable, right? When you  are trading with a particular  country, when different  countries, companies are  trading with each other, when  you have a basket of currencies  within your reserves, and you  do not know which sort of a  currency that you are going to  get from that particular  country, it's far harder to  predict the value of goods and  so on and so forth. This is  incredibly important. Because  if you don't know the value of  goods, you wouldn't know how  much to order. If you don't  know how much to order, your  ability to trade with other  countries, smaller countries  that opening government is so  concerned about, goes down at  that particular point in time,  because of the simple reason  that you do not have markets,  currency markets that are as  predictable anymore, you are  more likely to trade with  countries with more economies  rather than countries with  which has certain advantages  such as low low labour cost and  so on and so forth which is  very important under our side  because that's how they achieve  economic growth and so on and  so forth. Number three and this  is also to a integrated vision  stability and so on and so  forth. They said that oh but  every country now caters to the  US. But literally like no like  every other country trades with  every other country on the  basis of reserve currency  because of the fact that every  country in the world has a  dollar reserve. Even freaking  Russia has a dollar reserve  which has been frozen. That's a  different story. But even has a  dollar reserve means that you  can trade with any other  country in the world because  you can use you the  predictability of the US dollar  to hedge against. So, for  example, when Zambia wants to  trade with Rhonda, they can use  a dollar as a convertability in  between these two currencies.  In a world where you hedge  against that particular  currency, currency basket that  becomes far more difficult to  do. Why is the currency basket  so bad? Because I think CGA  will probably have to defend it  on based on the rules of  debating and so on and so  forth. I'll give you four broad  reasons why. And rebuttals  integrated. Number one, they  said that the dollar is not  good because they like regulate  and so on and so forth do not  exist. Untrue out of after two  thousand eight we have the dot  frank act and so on and so  forth. The US has become far  more sort of sensible in terms  of financial regulations.  Secondly they said that on net  the US economy and the US  financial system is  deregulated. We tell you it's a  good thing that it's on net  deregulated. What the  alternatives that you have? You  have China that is not  deregulated. That is heavily  the financial system is heavily  hedged against his housing  market which can bust at any  point in time because the  housing construction across the  world can go down and that  market itself can go down at  any point in time because the  companies of China are not  making profits currently.  Secondly, it's captured by  oligopolis on the alternative.  If you have a deregulated  market, you have more  competition, you have more it's  easier to enter into the  market, the, like, like  companies such as Lehman  Brothers can just be not bailed  out and shoved out of the  market because it's possible to  do so because they are not  captured the entire US market  because it's a deregulated  market, which is not possible  in other major economies. You  can say, ah, but the Yodo is  great and so on and so forth.  For number one, the Euro is a  far smaller economy, two euro  has very similar structures  with US, it's basically a  budget US at that time. Why do  you want to complicate things  with the Euro and so on and so  forth. Number three, it also  has countries such as Breeze,  Portugal, Italy with far worse  balance sheets within the  economies and have different  regulations all across not a  standardized form of  regulations. Standardized form  of regulations are important in  order to have some  predictability within financial  markets because deregulated  economies allow you to see  information within these  markets, see information within  stock markets, see information  within these companies and  disclose information, access  information because the economy  is literally run on information  and that's a good thing that  you have in the US. So,  especially you don't have to go  looking for Greece's because  that's, that's, that's a bad  thing. Thirdly, we tell you  that to a large extent, the  reason why the US is so stable  to a certain extent and this is  true, is through a self  fulfilling prophecy of the  dollar being so big, right? And  this is quite important.  Because what I posit to you  here is that hypothetically, if  you could make one country ah,  the home of the one standard  currency, that would possibly  be the best thing possible,  idealistically. But here the US  is the best actor in this  particular instance, rather  than hedging it towards  multiple actors. Because the  because that the US is the only  country that has the dollar, it  has the ability to go for  things like loans and fiscal  stimuluss which does not have  too much impact on its economy.  The reason it's too very  important is because the 2008  financial crisis would have  been far far worse if the US  generally did not have the  ability to bail out so many  companies and bail out its own  not bail out companies but bail  out its own economy so easily  and the COVID-19 crisis would  have been so so much worse. By  the way, the COVID-19 crisis  literally hit every economy in  the world in a hitch economy  you would have been far more  **** unless you did not rely on  US. Because the reason Biden  was able to give so easily  fiscal stimulus checks to  people was because of the fact  that it had the backing of the  US dollar and he knew that the  US dollar denomination is the  most powerful in the world and  it won't lose its value.  Therefore, it was able to take  loans from external actors  because they know that the UN's  loans are the most stable  investment. It's pretty much a  self-fulfilling prophecy  because US dollar is so  powerful. It allows itself to  get out of recessions in not  even get into recessions to be  in with and that's quite  important terms of controlling  economies. Before I move on,  I'll take one closing  government.  OG? Okay, your claim that the  US is also on its own sometimes  table is missing the point. Our  point is that other currencies  also diversify in ways that the  US doesn't. And the best way to  hedge most structural risk is  to hedge across many currencies  rather than just one. Amazing.  What is the comparative in this  particular instance? The  comparative case, in vast  majority of the cases because  of the way in which the  economies are intertwined.  First of all, if the US is in a  crisis, almost certainly the  euro is in a crisis because of  the fact that they are so  intertwined as an economy  generally. In a lot of cases, I  have already told you the  structural problem to the  Chinese economy. But the  problem here is, every economy  sense of economics goes to a  boom and bust cycle. Right, at  that particular point in time,  would you rather hedge your  bets on that one economy that  you know can use the dollar to  fortify its economy in multiple  levels versus five or six  currencies. We have no  guarantee that these economies  will be able to fortify their  own economies through the  ability of that singular  currency. Because in those  particular instances, the  ability of having that singular  currency is so very important  that you lose out at the point  in time. You create a basket.  The point at which Chinese  economy goes into recession,  there is no escaping from this  but when the US goes into  recession, there is a easy way  out in that particular sense.  Lastly, in terms of why is it  more important from the  perspective of say, say  countries like Russia and why  we should essentially ban for  countries like Ukraine because  the alternative is far worse in  terms of geopolitics and so on  and so forth. Chinese, the  Chinese, the Chinese and the  Russians do not have as much  accountability mechanisms as  the US judge in terms of  geopolitics. If you are, if you  want your ability to stop  countries like Russia from  going into war, penalize  countries through a through a a  global standard that has  essentially a global country  that has things like democratic  mechanisms within it. You want  the US to have the dollar  power. Because otherwise  literally most of the sanctions  with Russia does not work.  Because a lot of countries  including Europe want to trade  with Russia at that point in  time. The reason you can put so  much pressure on Russia and the  reason Ukraine hasn't given up  on it given up yet. Is because  of the simple fact that you  could put so much pressure  through the financial system.  Without that you are not able  to do so within these countries  and you allow a lot of these  problems within that world to  persist. In the end. We have a  far better economy and a far  better world. The US dollar  needs to persist incredibly  proud to oppose.  Thank you very much and to all  four speakers in the top half,  moving on to the closing half  of the debate, I'd like to  welcome the member of  government. Here, here.  Sorry I have a lot of paper for  once. Um I'll take POIs in the  chat. Uh if anyone, you know,  from Princeton or friends and  family are watching, thank you  for your support and thank you  XK. Okay. Starting in three,  two, one, go. The problem with  the US having global reserve  currency status is it means the  US is massively privileged with  respect to any other country in  the world through its financial  system. People will always buy  US bonds. The US will always be  able to borrow for cheaper. US  equities will always outperform  other nations. In the worst  case, we think if other  countries get these benefits,  we just redistribute towards  Europe and China which are in  and of themselves, relatively  poor countries but also nations  all around the world whose  finances have fled because  people when they have savings  want go into the US equity  market and buy US bonds and are  much more likely to spend this  money domestically, we  literally make global  development much more likely to  happen. Why is this a  prerequisite for the  development of a large of the  world? Under the status quo,  the UN, the US, rather, has run  a massive trade deficit for a  very, very long time. If an  ordinary country did this, this  would lead to a massive  increase in government debt and  then a huge amount of inflation  because people expect that the  government is going to devalue  the currency in order to be  able to pay back the debt. The  US has been able to maintain  currency stability despite  doing this which is a massive  win for them because a trade  deficit means they get a bunch  of stuff from abroad that goes  to them. Everyone gets richer.  US consumers able to buy this  stuff without the costs of  having to do this. Why are they  able to do this under the  status quo? The first reason is  because there is a huge demand  for cash in US dollars. There  is a massive demand for US  bonds. So inflows of money to  purchase US bonds means that  there is not a massive  deflation in the US currency  because people are buying  dollars buying dollar  denominated assets. The second  reason the and the reason  obviously they want cash as  they execute transactions and  because other people want like  if you believe that other  people buy the US dollar, it is  likely to be stable. Secondly,  this has a consequence also  makes US equities substantially  more profitable which means  that other people are then much  more likely to buy US equities  as a consequence of this policy  because A, the fact that the US  is the global reserve currency  means that it's substantially  more stable than other  currencies by my first  mechanism which means that the  cost of borrowing in United  States is likely to be  substantially lower than in  other nations. The US has lower  interest rates than almost  everywhere around the world  because of this massive demand  for the bonds in market.  Secondly, because when foreign  people buy US bonds and I think  about like more than half of US  debt is owned abroad, this  pushes US bond holders into  other forms of the economy like  equities, which has a massive  stimulating effect within the  US country. But thirdly,  because people also want  incomes denominated in US  dollars, because they want  foreign reserves, for instance,  they are likely to buy US  equities as opposed to anyone  else. This in net amounts to a  huge boon for the US economy at  the expense of other people.  People buying US companies and  funding them instead of holding  moneys in other markets. People  buying US bonds, funding  government expansion at the  cost of everywhere else in the  world. What happens in the  alternative? One, other  countries, if there is true  there is likely to be pegging  internationally to like or or  holding foreign reserves. We  think everyone admits it's  likely to happen. I'd like you  to get a massive boost instead  via exactly the mechanisms.  People will now buy European  bonds. The cost of borrowing  will go down in Europe. Europe  will be able to fund more  fiscal stimulus domestically  which is really good for the  European economy. In the worst  case, we just get countries  like Japan and the EU getting  access to these benefits which  are one still poorer than the  United States. So things we  should care about. Two, much  more likely to compete against  the United States once they  have this additional financial  power, decreasing the extent to  which any country is dependent  on either China or the United  States. But thirdly, have  suffered stagnation in the last  few years because people keep  buying bonds whereas now if you  make the amount they get paid  back substantially less because  they get competition from  abroad you're much more likely  to force people to spending  this money domestically which  means that you're much more  likely to stimulate these  economies. Greece, Portugal,  much likely to be better off.  But even if like the most  likely way this is going to  happen and this isn't allowed  within the rules of debating is  that people will buy R and B  denominated bonds and Chinese  government bonds because they  will execute the vast majority  of their tractions in the RM  be. The reason this is likely  is one, because China is  currently the world's largest  trader and has expanded into a  huge number of countries  internationally. So people do  need to make sure specifically  that they are able to hedge  against deviations in the  direction of the R and B  because that is the currency  they denominate their contracts  in. But secondly because China  has used some underhand tactics  at times to try and enforce  this globally. This means that  China is the country that is  actually benefiting from this  motion at the expense of the  United States. Why do we care  about this? China is currently  Struggling quite a lot, right?  The equity market has always  been relatively unstable for a  variety of reasons and as a  consequence, it has been hard  for them to respond to pretty  much any financial shock  because if they ease capital  controls and they reduce the  amount that their bonds pay  out, people will just flee the  country. For instance, this is  why in response, the most  recent financial crisis, they  could not reduce rate  sufficiently to stimulate the  economy because they are  worried that everyone would  just leave the country and  start buying US bonds instead.  We make it much more likely  that China can finance  expansion. China can respond  adequately to financial shocks.  The reason we care, one, even  if they **** over the rest of  the world, China has a billion  people, a seventh of the people  in the world who are much  poorer than anyone in Europe  and United States, getting  massive benefit because the  Chinese government is now able  to fund expansion. Chinese  people are now able to import  more, to make their own lives  better. I'll take the POI from  open, you know. Right, so you  can see that the US has an  ability to always maintain a  stable dollar. In a point of  economic crisis for small  countries, they have different  kinds of economic risk. One of  which is currency risk. Yeah.  You concede that currency risk  is eliminated. You did a good  enough job explaining it. You  don't need to realisate these  points. I'll get on stability  later on. Secondly, we think  that the China specifically  needs a large amount of  additional funding to get out  of the middle income trap that  they currently face themselves  in and therefore, a large  amount of money that will label  them to upskill people  domestically is actually  necessary but thirdly, China  being wealthier means A, it is  less likely to compete with  other manufacturing countries.  For instance, by devaluing its  currency to make sure this not  out competed with Vietnam  because it's more able to pay  people into relatively more  skilled forms of this.  Secondly, given it has very  close ties to almost the rest  of the world and much close to  the United States because it  doesn't have isolationism to  anywhere near the same degree.  It is a much better candidate  for purchasing exports from  other countries. So, China's  additional wealth means that  all of Southeast Asia gets a  massive benefit because it's  more likely to trade with these  currencies, countries and they  can buy stuff under their side  of the house. But finally,  countries that are now just  less likely to hold any foreign  reserves in general. Let's talk  through this. The reason  stability primarily matters is  when your incomes are different  from your expected cost in the  future, right? Like, you have  to pay people domestically out  in welfare but the money you  from abroad is in a foreign  currency and there might be  some instability. The problem  is even if the US dollar is  stable, if your currency is  unstable relative to US dollar,  then that is still a massive  problem for you. I'm sure you  can solve this problem with  reserves but notice the  implicit cost of this is that  people are just buying US bonds  instead of spending their own  money domestically and it's not  clear why that is a valid trade  off. Under our side, if you're  trading with China, you're now  much more likely to hold things  like Chinese reserves. So, if  you're trading the neighbour,  you hold domestic reserves. It  is unkai, this makes a massive  difference stability because  they also have some like like  because you could also have an  unstable domestic economy  relative to US but the benefit  is that we get a massive  distribution of financial power  to these nations instead  because people want assets and  their currencies very proud to  propose.  Thank you very much. I'd like  to welcome the member of  opposition. Okay here.  Hi,  I'm actually honorable.  Yep. Awesome. Alright. Usual  stuff. PYs in the chat. You all  know the drill by now.  study my speech in three, two,  one. Let's chat about two  things. One, how China uses  their currency, two, how the US  will react. Couple of important  framing things to deal with  first, to deal with some of the  really odd claims coming from  opening in CG. OG says, time  three can choose not to pack  the currency too. Wow, I know  this is a grand final but a  massive risk. As you correctly  point out, your peg will be  actual commodities that you  need to keep in your reserve.  It's not just a random number  that you chose. So, it looks  like lots of foreign currency  for example that cells will be  packed to other randomly chosen  actual commodity baskets. This  means that your the strength of  your currency and the stability  of your currency is determined  by moving these commodities  around. Moving this basket  around. This is the basis of  having any kind of monetary  control in the first place. So  you cannot have everyone  deciding for themselves what  their basket is. Cos how will  you move these commodities  around to ensure that their  currency is stable? If the  country that you are moving  this commodity to has a  different pack than you. This  is why the gold standard fail  and why commodities are now  tied to the USD because  physical commodities don't work  in creating a good economic  monetary system. The  alternative therefore will  trickle down to one competing  currency and one currency that  becomes the hedgerman. And the  reason why this is because  there needs to be some somehow  standardization in  international capital force.  Maybe you can accommodate two  or three currencies for a  while. But you're likely to  homogenize over one  international standard  eventually. Cos that's what  makes life a lot more  convenient for you. In ensuring  that you are able to more  conveniently access  international markets,  international capital flows.  Note therefore, in the long  terms that you probably give  China the same advice the CG  says that the US currently has.  Why is the UN the most likely  option? First, the rise of  massive foreign investment from  China, trade happens in in the  UN in urban when it comes to  the BRI project, the Asian  investment development fund  push. All these transactions  happen in the UN, that's why  it's like to be more powerful  than any other currency out  there. Second, the fact that  China has a incentive, right?  Stay old and move out of China  to cool the Chinese domestic  economy. Other economies like  Europe doesn't have the same  overheating especially on the  EU where most of Central Europe  exist. They still have massive  demand that the EU can still  tap into. Oh, that's zero work  to prove that the UN is a  currency of choice, we do.  Let's talk about why, how and  why China controls its  currency, and whether they are  starting to change, even if  they gain more leverage in the  international monetary system.  Why do you control the  currency? One, stability. China  escaped the AFC in the late  1990s because they had tight  monetary controls and  therefore, historically, China  has seen protection of their  currency as the precipitation  of growth. Second, political  control. It does not trust the  international world order. It  prefers to ensure that yes more  control over this country than  not. Third, it's still largely  relying on manufacturing and  production and will likely  continue to do so in the  future, because there is a huge  demand still for Chinese  products, because things like  MNC networks already do exist,  for things like fast fashion,  manufacturing will continue to  exist in China in a large  degree. Why is all this  important? Because the desire  to control the UN is probably  likely to get even worse in a  world where the UN becomes the  currency of choice. One,  because there will be less easy  ways to devalue the UN. The  current easy way to adopts is  to keep buying US treasury  bonds. Presumably if China is  the international dominant  currency, they can no longer do  that in order to ensure that  the currency doesn't  strengthen. Second, the UN is  more subject to the whips of  international economies which  scares the government because  they do not want to be subject  to this international  pressures. This has already  winded up in the status quo  with China engaging in weird  economic innovation and I use  innovation in a very negative  way. **** like quantitative  easing. The China has started  to experiment with just earlier  this year. This is a massively  risky. If countries that this  is the currency that they want  to conduct capital transactions  with increases the likelihood  of bad Chinese contagion. The  Chinese government hasn't  exactly made fantastic economic  decisions in the last 10 years,  which is exactly why they are  in the **** that CG points out  that they are in. I don't think  therefore, the reliance on the  Chinese economy and Chinese  government's economic decisions  are the best like way to  conduct international capital  transactions and have a strong  currency that can actually act  as a international backer for  the rest of the world. This is  therefore the necessary  comparative that OO doesn't  want to engage with versus the  stability of the USD which we  accept all arguments for what  they have done no comparative  in this debate. I want to add  that even when the US does  actually do rope thing which is  the government's worst case  scenario. This has to be  corrected by the democratic  process that happens every four  years. O has no comparative and  no proven counter factor they  are out of this debate. Let's  talk about geopolitics. How  will America react? The answer  is that they will react badly.  And the reason for this is  because losing reliance on the  global dollar is a signal of  decreasing US influence this is  the one area that Democrats and  Republicans all agree on is  that you don't want to ****  lose influence to China. This  also flips CG because CG says  the US is incredibly  privileged. We agree. They have  done all the stuff like trade  deficits that CG talks about.  But the point here is, if this  has been part of the US's  economic strategy for the  longest time, this change in  the international status quo is  a massive threat to the US. In  so far, it's a, it affects the  way that the economic strategy  plays out in ensuring that the  US continues to grow  economically in the future.  Also, they don't want to lose  control of their allies to  China, right? Because the  country, the biggest block  economically, has incredible  power in shaping for the  international order looks like.  What the rules based world  order looks like. This is  something that the US economy  see to China. Also, security  threats, right? The Asia  Pacific region encroachment by  China against of the US's most  important allies in Japan,  South Korea. These are  incredible importance to the  US. Before I want to explain  what America will try and do,  OG shirt. It is not clear that  there is force to be one  currency since the competitive  process of taking on new  currencies lead to the  favorable policies in full  capital and we talk about much  better than the closing budget.  Okay,  so the point here is, you  might have some competition in  the midterm or the short term,  but eventually, the fact that,  that investors, banks, always  want to have the most  convenient, less costly  economic transactions, means  that you're always going to  default back to one currency in  the long term anyway. Okay, so  what would the, what would  America do? First, they cannot  subsidize their firms to the  same degree without relying on  same devaluation that China is  using in the China currently  uses a subsidized firms.  Therefore, the only option to  threaten these countries in  other ways. Note, the US has  still, still has massive  financial capacity. A lot of  countries, especially in the  American and European region,  trade the most with the US.  This is the sanctioned  countries to consolidate their  economic block. This is a flip  on OG's multilateralism  argument. It's especially true  in country for the cost of  switching is currently high  because they already have lots  of US foreign reserve and it  already paid the economy to the  US. If the US senses that China  is going to be on the rise, the  likely outcome as a result is  that they're going to try and  consolidate these partners and  form an economic block around  these partners by threatening  them and saying that if you do  switch to ah switch to the  Chinese current foreign sea to  the UN, there's going to be  lots of repercussions, lots of  implications towards your,  your, your trade deals with the  US. This means that small  country but also mid size  countries will end up being  forced to choose between  America and China creating the  bipolar world order that we had  experienced in the 19 80s and  90s and sending all of us back  to the cold war. I think that  forcing countries to choose is  a terrible option in so far as  right now countries have the  ability to leverage between the  US and China in a way that they  wouldn't be able to do when you  consolidate blocks in a way  that will happen only on  government. Okay, that's my  time. I'm the prop beneficiary  of the love and support from so  many friends, families, people  I care about, and inspiration  to the Singapore they have  paved the way for this to even  be possible. To them I'm  eternally grateful for them I  oppose.  Thank you very much. I'd like  to welcome the last speaker on  the gov side, the government  I'd like for people to turn  them to give me POIs visually  only. Um and for that reason I  also appreciate it if judges  and speakers would all just  have their cameras on and makes  me debate happier and better.  Our extension is about  development. The betterment of  human quality of life for  millions of people across the  globe. Our claim is that US  growth is turbocharged by the  dominance of the dollar at the  expense of the economies of  other countries. In the absence  of the dollar Higemedi, these  benefits disperse amongst other  states. And look at this  applies regardless of what the  counterfacial is, whether it's  the vitamin B, whether it's  Boston, different currencies,  and I think that if you're  questioning how to resolve that  clash, you know, it's quite  good that our class is  independent of that. But this  also really, really massive,  right? Because it truly is to  the tune of trillions of  dollars. Half of US denominated  foreign debt is held by foreign  actors. That's like 14 trillion  dollars that are currently held  by these foreign actors. And I  think that when this goes to  other people, it just like a  huge amount of financial  stimulus. But the second main  thing is just it's also the  case that note that Opside  cannot support the enrichment  and growth of developing  countries. The reason for this,  as well as this is a trend that  is already be happening.  Because the US returns are  currently so stable because  people often invest in them  rather than in their own  economy. But there is a trend  towards investing more  domestically and stability  increases and people get  wealthier and it's easier to  invest abroad. And therefore  the rich the enriching and  development of relevant  countries in here need come to  the decrease of US currency  hegemony. The bottom line is  this. The US has a lot of  money. That's not great. We  would rather go to other  countries. Why is that so  beneficial? couple of reasons,  right? The first thing is just  like very, very simply, when  people default to, to, to  investing domestically, buying  equity domestically, buying  government bonds in their own  currency, that's really, really  good because it gives local  governments more to work with,  and note to that monetary  policy is not really effective  in the absence of, of, of  government spending that is  fiscal to back that up, but  second of all, it's also just  the case, that it, that the  Chinese, it's also just a case,  that you also make it such  country has become much more  stable due to increased  democratization and access to  foreign capital. And that means  that they're also less  susceptible to shocks in  domestic financial conditions  and the rate of return to  domestic investments was also  substantially higher. What does  this mean on the ground? It  means that it's easier for  people to set a businesses  because they borrow at a rate  of two percent rather than  5percent. Or because the  currency of that is used within  their own region is something  that is regional as close to  something in the US that they  have to buy. Because it's still  in high demand and they ready  to be expensive. But the second  main thing, it's all just a  case that we substantially  increase the well being of the  Chinese economy. And the reason  for this is because right now,  we think that the Chinese  government is actually not  doing great. It's stagnating  and a much, it really, really  needs all of this investment.  And that's for two reasons. The  first is, growth is currently  really, really slowing. The  middle income drop means that  China's loss of income  volunteers that have previously  used to become richer and  increasingly becomes poor and  poor. It has supply over  capacities. For example, like  millions and like billions of  dollars placed in enterprises  that invest primarily in steel  or in infrastructure that  currently have no demand and  therefore completely wasted.  It's always just a case that  Chinese growth in the past was  relying on state-owned  enterprises and government plan  economy and investment which is  currently proven to be less and  less effective because of  underlying lack of faith in the  Chinese government means that  as soon as someone gets rich,  they put their money into US  bonds, US capital, US homes  instead. And for those reasons,  China is getting poor and poor  and more and more debt growth  is loan and that's really  really bad. Why is this more  important than the other  impacts in the round? For a  couple of reasons here. The  first thing is, I think what's  Greg's told you about the  certainty of development and  how money goes into domestic  countries and spreads much more  evenly across the world is much  more certain and likely to  occur than the next given in  top of which are mostly about  stability about financial  crisis which honestly, I don't  think are that important in the  round. The first reason being,  look, like, I think reasonably  well, like financial crisis  education scenario. There are  lots of reasons why they can be  quite bad. And I think the  government like the word has  already integrated to an extent  that it's not really clear why  this particular mood of  daughterhood makes it so much  worse. But the second main  reason for this is because it  limits the OG's impacts too.  one countries that have their  currencies picked at the US  dollar. Which is actually not  that many countries in the  world. Two, it also means that  their efficacy is limited to  monetary policy. And I think  that I, I said this earlier,  that is fine mandatory policy  is not very effective when you  don't have fiscal policy but  the reason is this, right?  Monetary policy works because  when you lower interest rates,  you hope that people decide to  take risks and spend more money  and take out loans. The problem  is, all of that is secondary to  your faith in the recovery of  your economy overall and your  perceptions of how much money  people have to spend and  whether the economy would  better off overall. Therefore,  in terms of financial crisis,  no matter how low you make the  interest rate, people are not  going to borrow and help you  and therefore you really really  need government fiscal  stimulus. Which is why it's so  very important. Why? As Greg  says we tell you why the  benefits of having a global  currency is diffused amongst  everyone across the world. Okay  so I think that's a reason as  to why financial crisis has a  secondary impact on the ground.  But I also want to chat about  stability right? Because like  maybe it's just my small brain  but it is truly mysterious to  me. Why stability occupied such  a large part of the top half  debate? Because like the link  between having reserves held in  a particular currency and the  stability of your own currency  is kind of indirect. Like  foreign reserves help because  you can buy and sell bonds in  your own currency to control  the exact level which you did  is that. It is not hung on  whether on like the levels of  value that you're a foreign  that your currency reserves are  currently in as well as you can  moderate the amount that you're  buying or selling at any given  point in time. Which means that  honestly like as long as you  keep some degree of foreign  reserves seems probably fine to  me that you that that stability  is probably not super  important, but the second main  thing is it just forced the  case, disability is affected  far more by domestic financial  conditions, which we uniquely  tell you about. The second  thing I want to do then, in  terms of weighing, is just  explain to you why it's  comparatively so much better to  have money in the hands of  other governments that are not  the US, for two reasons, right?  The first is, it's used to a  much larger extent, because so  much of US investment, here's  the military, as opposed to  other countries that don't have  the dependence on this Gemini  and therefore have a tendency  to spend it on other things  such as development. But the  second thing is that it's also  just a case that China is like  way, way, way, way poorer than  the US. And I think for those  reasons, the marshal utility of  this money is also better on  RSI. Finally, on China bad.  China, good. I think the main  issue that they assume that  Chinese power is quite bad. I  would pause it that Chinese  aggression has given primarily  by insecurity. IE, China is  more expansionist than South  China Sea when they feel like  they're under threat. And I  think that when the Chinese  economy is much better off. It  also reduces their need to use  manipulative measures to  control other currencies. I  also think it's the case that  right now we are at a status  quo where the US is highly  dominant. And I think in a  world where lots of different  currency box are using  different currencies. It also  means that there is spiritual  accountability placed on the  Chinese government and they  need to please other countries  as well. For all those reasons  we make people especially  richer and for those reasons  CG.  Thank you very much. I'd like  to welcome the last speaker of  the debate of the tournament as  a whole, the opposition whip  Can you hear me? Yep, nice and  clear. Thanks, take a break.  Yeah, before I start, I want to  thank the Singapore circuit,  NUS specifically for taking  care of me for honestly, so  many years. And also I want to  stay in my amusement that I'm  the last person you are  going to hear this  championships. Um, right.  Starting in three, two, one. I  think there were two important  contributions from Dion's  speech. They aren't dealt with  by the closing government. The  first is an explanation of why  Chinese use of currency,  specifically, is economically  volatile. Secondly is the  explanation why geopolitically  this needs to drastically worse  outcomes in the interim but  also moving forward. Let's talk  about economics. I want to note  that discussion and abstract  makes no sense for a few  reasons. First, it drastically  undercuts the value of closing  guard. First, closing guards  enter in a position where they  say, where will benefit some  countries and a variety of  countries but each of them  presumably will benefit a lot  less in a world where this is  done in the abstract as OG  wants to do by saying, well,  other random currencies might  increase in value. But  secondly, I want to note that  this abstract discussion of  multiple different currencies  is unrealistic for the reasons  Dion gives you and for the  reasons incidentally that  opening opposition don't give  you. There are few things that  Dion says. The first thing he  points out is that only China  can trample the economic rule  book in a way that would enable  them to become the the main  currency and therefore  capitalize on the decline of  the dollar. The reason for this  is in the status quo, sales  market advantage as OG  characterized is significant  but only China will be able to  trample on its economic rules  to make CIPS the alternate  global transfer of the  significant transfer actor. But  further to that also I want to  know that China is uniquely as  a capacity to trample on  companies wishers. These  companies then have the  incentive to maintain status  quo that them. Relatively large  companies. That's something the  the EU and Japan for example  don't have the power to do.  What that means is that  uniquely it's likely that China  is the alternative. I also want  to know that constant change is  unlikely to be possible because  like the degree to which you  need like reserve currency is  one thing. But the reliance  also looks at the the reliance  on the currency for trade and  the level of difficulty and  like cost that is incurred.  Asking people that multiple  different tradings like payment  systems or to change between  different payment systems  radically per different  policies happening. Economic  policies happening in each  country. It's so significant  that countries are unlikely to  be able to do this or the cost  of the extent which the change  is very limited. That deals  with OG s claim that you  increase the agency or  countries to be able to play  different risks. The third when  all say that you don't know the  next step therefore. Like of of  China and Russia. The problem  is that that reason was unclear  in terms of why the US uniquely  is known in terms of what the  next step is. That's why the  centerpiece of the discussion  has to be on why China is  specifically bad that's  analysis that was given to you  by Dion not responded to in the  government with speaker. The  final thing I want to note  within the economic clash is to  deal with closing government  because closing down says,  let's redistribute money  drastically and this is  going to be a good thing. I  have broadly like four  responses. The first is that  it's not true that you get an  increase in money and the  reason for this is that if they  really have a basket, what that  means is that in that basket,  you risk countries shifting  money around and consequently  that means that by OG's logic,  there's a risk to any  investment that you get in  government because they might  not want to buy your bonds in  the future. That insecurity  limits any degree of economic  change and development that  closing government wants to  claim happens. That also means  that it ignore that takes out  the argument that China will  magically be more secure  because China presumably might  feel that it might reduce the  amount of influence that go to  it might reduce moving forward.  Secondly, I want to know that  this argument weighs really  weekly against every other team  for two reasons. First, that is  likely to go to other middle to  rich rich countries. Countries  like Japan like they suggested.  These countries are have fairly  strong economies, I do not see  the value of increasing these  economies more. The reason why  this is structurally going to  go to other strong economies is  because you don't want to use a  weak economy as as your pec or  any part of your pec for the  reasons that are given by all  other teams in the debate,  right? Which is that that  exposes you to a significant  degree of risk. But more than  that, countries have so many  other ways to grow in addition  to this idea of inflows coming  as a result of fiat from the  policy. I think that therefore  there is no tipping point to  this particular argument. But  thirdly, at best what they do  is they create more regional  inequality as opposed to one  single act coming significantly  stronger IE. US. That's not a  good thing. Because it means  that for countries, they  operate at as like in  relatively equal playing fields  within their particular region,  that means that these countries  suddenly lose out. The amount  of trade that they were able to  get previously because  regionally makes more sense to  trade within that region rather  than the US. Reduce us and so  that that regional inequality  is going to hurt small  countries even more. Before I  move on, I want to take opening  government stability is not  mutually exclusive nor an a  priory good. When it's  disaligned with the country's  economic policy. Why speaking  between the US and China better  than the competitive incentives  we provide for big countries to  develop small countries in  order for them to adopt their  currency? I got that. So apart  from Dion's analysis, I want to  go as a final law on this  economics thing. It doesn't  matter. And the reason for that  is that in the long term, it's  likely that countries will find  ways to cope with the new  economic environment that  exist. So on balance, noone is  going to get a big win here.  Let's talk about geopolitics  therefore, because stuff with  just doesn't do this at all.  The big argument that was given  in Dionne is that in the  immediate interim, the US isn't  going to just sit back and  allow its currency to decline  because of the massive joke,  political and economic benefit  that CG suggest, it, that it,  it, is able to benefit from in  the status quo. What that  means, is that they are likely  to react by trying to coerce  countries to take, to keep  itself strong. OG has a two  away line on this that says  competition. The problem is the  US will recognize that it can't  compete with China. One,  because China is the ability to  give extreme subsidies to its  companies and to other  countries that the US just  doesn't have the ability to  throw money around because they  recognize WTO rules for example  against subsidies but also  because the US economy is right  and the ability to activate  random money out of nowhere is  a lot lesser than China's  ability to use state-owned  banks for example. What this  means is that you're likely to  get more coercive measures that  Dion tells you like sanctions  or like like significant  diplomatic pressure. Four  reasons why this is the most  important. First, because it's  the big argument in the debate.  The most immediate outcome  because happens in the  immediate interim as this  policy as this trend happens.  Secondly, it is the least  mitigatable as a consequence,  not just now, but in the future  because the bipolarity that is  created. Third, because this,  the comparative harm of, of  economic outcomes, our own  market forces, which means that  different actors have the  ability to correct within the  market. This a V one actor  specifically trying to  manipulate the market to screw  over smaller countries. That is  a lot harder for you to  mitigate, and there is a lot  harder for you to react to and  defend against. But fourthly,  this is just a massive, massive  countries especially small  countries are going to lose the  short term capacity of agency  as a result of this policy  because of the the sanctions  that are placed under. But in  the long run the bipolar world  that Dion tells you is really  important as well. Because what  he tells you first and foremost  is that a cold war context  weakens sanctions because if  you always have oh major backup  like China or the US, there is  a world in which you don't have  to be scared of the other  sides, sanctions. That means  that there is no way whatsoever  to enforce any degree of global  policing or actions on that a  house. I want to note that  China increasing its economic  power is probably bad because  it removes the existing  incentive towards moderation in  order for it to grow its  economy in other ways. In  contrast, multipolarity means  that even if you make sanctions  work, there is slow and time  consuming because you have to  get so many actors to agree. In  a context where geopolitics  moves fast and within days, the  ability to to sanction before,  for example, Russia can move  assets out of US banks is  really important. But also the  implication of cross sanctions  between different blocks that  makes countries significantly  on that side of the house  because you are going like the  eastern top for example tries  to sanction the western block  that because they are trading  in different currencies. What  that means is on that side,  countries get poorer on net but  also our ability to police the  global environment decreases  drastically. That's why we  oppose. Thank you very much and  in fact, thank you to all the  teams in the realm. One big  metaphorical round of applause.  Um well, what happens now is I  presume the stream stops. Uh  you guys leave the room, we  deliberate as we 