Video Link: https://youtu.be/h_1T2s-DfOE

Video Motion: This House Prefers religions that "center the self" to religions that "reject the self"

Video Title: Belgrade WUDC 2022 Semifinals Room 1

Transcript:
 we're going to team  introductions then  announcements. So panel in the  order in which you appear on  the tab. And  empty. Sorry, I was not looking  at that. I did not know the  order and yeah, really a good  luck to all things. Alright.  What Good luck. Alright. Assume  that's me. Hi everyone. I'll be  your judge. Ah no preference  with respect to pronouns and  yeah. good luck for the round  and release.  Rob, hey, Wing. Alright, sorry,  I forgot to ask, do the judges  also enthusiastically consent  to streaming? Okay, I'm seeing  thumbs up. So even judges  enthusiastically consent more  than debaters. Okay, we're now  going to gap teams, so opening  gap, new introductions, you can  let us know your names,  speaking positions and  pronounce if you'd like. Hi,  David. Speaking first, no  preferred gender pronouns.  Thanks. Hello, I'm Miko. I'll  be speaking second. I have no  preference as well. Alright,  Tobo.  Sajid speaking first, speaking  second, no preferences.  Speaking first, Brian speaking  second, he him pronounce for  both. Thank you. and closing up  Uh Dylan is speaking for us  there. He and Jack is just  going to take a piss but he  uses here they pronounce. Okay  alright thank you so much. Uh  we'll now do a couple of  announcements before we get  started. I can see one of my  panelists has offered to keep  time. I was about to tell you  I'm lazy and I don't do time  stamps. But I guess Narayan  will put time stamps in the  chat. So that's that's sorted.  So the time issue increased the  attention to what happens in  the chat. I also have a timer.  So if you go above 7 minutes  and 15 seconds I will indicate  with my hands that we are no  longer flowing your time is up.  The second is with regards to  time. Also keep your own timer  so that you know when to ask  POIs. You don't want to be  asking POIs during protected  time. So just keep a timer with  you so that you know when to do  this. The second is with  regards to POI. POIs. Firstly  take them the encourage to  engagement. We also enjoy them.  So secondly please state your  preference prior to your  speech. Do you want them in the  chat? Do you want them  verbally? Do you want them  visually? Speakers respect the  preference given by whoever is  on the floor. Uh when they do  agree to verbal PIs space them  out. No budget 30, 40 seconds  is enough between POIs, that  you're not constantly  interrupting whoever is on the  floor. And lastly, speakers on  the floor, when somebody is  asking a POI, let's avoid  cutting each other off, give  them like 10 seconds to ask  their question, so that you can  be able to also pick out the  questijust avoid and  literally catching each other  off, so that we can't hear the  POIs that they are asking.  Other than that, my next  announcement goes out to  observers, all observers, the  following things are  prohibited, you are prohibited  from using the chart, you are  prohibited, from using your  video, you are also prohibit  from disrupting the round in  any other way. So please if you  are an observer in the room  please do not interrupt the  round. It's a privilege you are  on the Zoom call and not  watching live streams. So let's  not abuse that privilege just  let's not disrupt the round.  Don't type here here in the  chat. Don't and show your  video. I'm sure you get the  point. Other than that I think  we are ready to start and you  know looking forward to a  wonderful semi-final. So I  welcome the Prime Minister to  start the round. Here here.  Hello. Can I be heard? Yes you  can. Let me just turn on my  camera. I will take POIs and  chat. Uh the speech has one  content warning which is there  will be some mentions of abuse  against religious and other  religious minorities and other  kinds of minorities. With that  said, I will start my speech in  three, two, one. For a long  time, the suppression of the  self has been the foremost  concern of humanity and their  ability to be happy. We think  religions that emphasize itself  as something inalienable and  something that ought to be  preserved  the are better than those  that exhibit less of the  characteristics that sent it  itself as in reject itself.  What are these characteristics  we think are very good? One,  recognizing that there is a  diversity of human experience  that emphasizes all these  experience are valuable and  essential. The soul, the the  feather-spun person beneath the  flinch is the source of your  divinity and that make you  unique and valuable. Two, the  self is and the existence of  that self is positive and life  is positive. That is the  existence of your individual  experiences as unique, is good  and not temporary or happy. And  number three is that the  primacy of the self and the  choice of the self, we know  that they are good and are  actual, versus greater  obligation to an afterlife or  to a God that requires  self-sacrifice or the  sublimation into a greater  home. These are the  characteristics we think are  good for the debate and more  importantly what we what will  be debated on. So number one,  agency. First, I will do the  counter factual, which is I  will prove on our side, we have  much more of a diversive  experience and a respect for  the agency of people. On our  side, the conception of the  self, where the difference of  human experience is special and  valued is much more likely to  the acceptance of individuals  who belong to sexual minorities  excluded within the church for  women who have the rights  restrained within religion  simply for the mistake of being  born a woman. We think that the  ability to equalize experience  is much more likely to cause  significantly greater  acceptance for these  individuals for three reasons.  One, their differences are now  highlighted as similarly a path  to divinity and as a connection  to God rather than one that is  unholy and strays away from the  pack. Two, it is more likely  that people accept differences  rather than curse it as a means  of betraying the community, the  leader and God, which is more  like an op. Because you are  told that you have to reject  yourself for some greater  purpose And hence being more  individual leads the community  away from group solace. And  three is that they are also  more likely to find  individuality as a way to  interpret and practice of  religion on gov. So they see  that individuality as something  to cherish and as something  that can be meaningful in  allowing them to to better  experience their relationship  with God. So this is personally  preferable. It is important  because getting more than just  community acceptance. They are  also likely to get personal  acceptance of themselves and  who they are. Which is  incredibly difficult and  incredibly important internal  harm to make sure that people  are comfortable in their and in  their own lives. This is  incredibly important since  whatever benefits of religion  op argues is incredibly  inaccessible if not actively  dangerous to the people who  need it the most. What does it  look like on opposition bench?  We think opposition leads to  key repressions of agency. We  think religion can typically be  a highly oppressive structure a  lot of the time and balance and  the greater structure of it can  be difficult. If the source of  value on our side is unique,  human experience, as we say it  is more likely that religion  values, doctrines that maximize  the choice of people because  they are primary individuals  rather than the imposition of  authority to introduce order.  On side, one, differences are  seen as a source of unhappiness  and authority will take it upon  themselves to do what is best  for people to suppress this.  Two, absent the ability to  connect God from the self. It  is not necessarily that you get  it from meditating but op will  likely seek it out from other  higher powers which means that  they are substantially more  vulnerable to politicization.  They are substantially more  vulnerable to a single  individual controlling the  reins and using it for their  own game. So, in instances  where religion is core is if  you get three harms on op. One,  certain minority groups on the  color of their skin are more  willing to be suppressed or  experience suppression more.  view their individuality as in  the front of God and something  that should be expunged. Two,  you defer a lot of authority  rather than the democratization  on the ground which makes it  vulnerable to cooperation and  politization. This means that  these religions are more likely  to be used in the aid of  authoritarian governments.  They're more likely to be used  to suppress people in the name  of power. And number three is  that you all experience  internal suppression which is  super vicious and suffering.  That some people will be  individual and unique no matter  what. But they feel that this  part of themselves is something  that is broken, something that  is flawed because it makes them  want to cherish themselves. But  this goes against every belief  that they have. They are born  with preferences. They will be  very different somehow.  everyone has something that  makes it different from someone  else. That means every person  in the world that you  experience some of those  suffering and some of despair.  Because they can ever truly  reject  the part of themselves that  they are born with and have no  control over. Why should you  weigh this argument massively?  One, because it makes it  experiences, it talks about  vulnerable groups who have very  little opportunity to fight  back, who are most likely to  put in positions of deep  disprivile, and need the solids  the most, but are at the same  time, removed from the solace.  Number two, it has a potential  to throw societies and upheaval  and conflict. Because religions  and op are most likely descend  into violence and suffering  because they are  vulnerable to a large leader  who's comfortable in  suppressing the individuality  leading to large scale content  and politilization. And number  three is this tyranny over the  self cannot ever be mitigated  because it is coming from you.  Something an external an  external body does not have the  similar amount of harm. You  yourself are the one that  experienced in causing this  massive physical harm and  mental harm into yourself.  And will go with you for the  rest of your life. This is why  we think a world on opposition  is a world not worth defending.  Second argument though. We  think it is also easier to  convince communities to come  together and help the most  vulnerable, help the poorest in  the world. Our counter factual  being centered on the self  doesn't mean that op is  centered on other people.  Indeed we actually reject that  and say our side makes people  better for other individuals.  Three reasons why. Number one,  if human suffering is  unimportant and is temporary,  it is much easier to justify  deprioritizing the well being  of other individuals. In the  name of justifying their  spiritual happiness, Despite  the fact that they are  suffering on the ground. Two,  especially when your individual  life is an illusion that causes  unhappiness and your struggles  are unimportant. It is easy to  sideline their issues by  calling it unnecessary part of  human life. So not just saying  that it doesn't matter. But  that it's obligatory that they  suffer. And three, assuming the  desire to do good was the same  on both sides, which we  categorically categorically  denied from the first  supremacist. The man which you  do goods is also worse. Right?  They are more likely support  interventions that impose on  people. Soup kitchens that  alleviate some suffering now  but keep people locked barely  above subsistence instead of  consulting people for what they  actually need. Like building  schools, building roads,  building hospitals based on the  real lived experiences. I'll  give the fourth mic after I  take PY from CO. Go. Direction  of the self means that you  believe that differences are  incidental. When you center the  self, it means you value those  differences being something  that is fundamentally part of  your human experience. And yet,  since these differences are  incidental, they must be  removed. They're clearly  unimportant to people. They're  clearly unimportant to and can  be removed. So, even if they  are incidental, that makes  things even worse as opposed to  something that should be  expunged from people. Fourth  mechanism, it's easier to  relate to others because even  if experiences are unique, you  can find some broad themes and  acknowledge that they have a  self that is just as dignified  as yours. Whereas, if on up,  people are all the same and  there's no underneath the  person, right? There's no  nothing underneath the soul  that gives them that  uniqueness. Then, it is not  sufficient to see the most  worthy of dignity. Hence, why  is this really really  important? Number one,  religious it's the largest  religion, it's the largest  charity in the world, and the  largest outpouring of aid, the  humanity is really ever seen.  So, we're just  losing  up with a gigantic  amount of a gigantic amount of  resources to uplift people out  of poverty. Particularly  because of the structural  reason saying that this this  suffering is indeed necessary  and important to keep in place.  Number two, they're also most  likely target areas to poverty  where noone goes that have very  few people to support them  because they still see these  people as worthy of uplifting o  choices and make individuality  available to them. But number  three, I also want to point out  that on ours, it's not just  physical spirituality but  physical health but also  spiritual health that allows  people to make to be feeble to  experience sorrows and  happiness in ways that they not  particularly oppressive where  they feel the most amount of  suffering. At the end of this  speech, unambiguously,  categorically, the center of  the self is precisely why  government is the center of  this debate, affirm.  We thank the Prime Minister for  that speech. Judges are we good  to go.  Alright. Think we're good to  go. Okay. Uh we welcome the  leader of to start the openinhe  hear me?  Uh yes, we can.  Cool.  Starting in three, two, one. Ah  we believe that  the framing and  characterization of how this  narrative works on OG is a bit  convenient.  The first thing I'd  like to pause it is, this  narrative is independent of  other narratives that operate  in the world. For example,  there are lots of other  narratives that operate, that  promote a sense of self. Things  like capitalism, things like  other reasons like basic  biological needs where you want  to earn more money to live a  better life. All of this exists  devoid of religious influence.  What is the reason for that?  Because this is dependent on  dry power. IE, maximizing your  ability to control resources,  maximizing the output that a  society generates in order to  create lived experiences for  those who've captured power  early. This debate then happens  in a world in which these  natural drives for self  preservation and importance  already exist but counter  balances that with religion  that says maybe this narrative  is not important. So, the first  thing I'd like to pause it is  having multiple narratives is  in and of itself a win. The  first reason for this is  because different People end up  having different degrees of  success in life. By virtue of a  plethora of reasons that I'll  get to in my second extension.  But I think this is intuitive  enough. Some people are born  rich, some people win well,  some people don't end up in  semis. What the point of this  is, is that when you get  individualized success, you can  still get happiness by  subscribing to particular  amounts of narratives that  exist in the world that tell  you that individualized success  is important versus some people  who don't end up winning the  capitalistic zero sum game and  follow the bottom. Can  subscribe to and therefore get  contentment out of this. If you  look at the world empirically,  the richer you are in a lot of  cases means you are more  educated and you've opted out  of religion to begin with.  That's a good thing because  that allows you to subscribe to  that form of happiness. So, the  first and most fundamental  attack to OG is this is a  narrative that challenges  existing narratives that  maximizes accessibility of  narratives to a greater number  of people and therefore,  distributes the quality of life  more equally. Let's say this is  not true. The rest of this case  will assume that this is not  true. Even though this is good  enough to beat their case and  why the alternative narrative  is good enough to begin with.  The biggest case they say is ah  we need to maximise agency by  accepting women and minorities  within but understanding  differences of self. Before  that I'll take CG. Well it is  true that narratives like  capitalism are also  individualistic. The kinds of  behaviours that they privilege  from individuals and the kinds  of individuals that they hold  up as icons are different and  that has different consequences  for the way we view ourselves.  Correct and the argument is  it's beneficial to have  different narratives that  people can subscribe to. It's  unclear what all subscription  from all people is likely to be  homogeneous. The first response  to acceptance of different  people which is differences of  self. The first thing I'd like  to point out is it is unclear  why. The way in which this  acceptance happen is  structurally explained in OG. I  either way you have described  what your interpretation of  yourself is is often basis  religious leaders or the way in  which this religion is  interpreted. The first thing  I'd like to pause is the  definition of self can be  prescribed. IE, you are band,  this is yourself and this is  what the rest of your life  should be. It is unclear why  you are trying to change  yourself, yourself is  important. So, the  interpretation of that can stop  the most important minorities  that they are trying to  protect. The second is, you are  often blamed for the choices  that contradict religion  because you see it as an ed cho  these people actively choose to  make. Principles like, you  know, homosexuality is bad in  religion. He marched before  these complex doctrines of self  materialize in the world. So,  Things like you choosing to be  gay is seen as an attack on  religion that is more likely to  be flipped against you. Because  yourself and your choices  matter. The comparative is when  none of these experiences  matter. You are more likely to  just be like, yeah, let them  **** another guy. Who cares?  Because it doesn't impact the  way in which they should be  deemed as moral entities. But  secondly, you also disempower  religion to the same extent.  Where you say that their  definition of yourself matters  less. The entire human  experience matters less. So the  ability for these religious  leaders in you also  comparatively reduces. If  anything, we accept the  minorities more on our side.  First positive material,  escapism. We believe the vast  majority of the world is  predetermined. There are lots  of reasons for this. Number  one, lottery of birth. You  don't choose what kind of  family you're born into. Number  two, IQ. Number three, your  interactions. Who you interact  with and your set of league  experiences often determine  what your free will is in the  future. Number four, even if  all of this is not true, just  pure randomness of the  molecular atoms in your brain  that influence what's your  ultimate choice or life will  be? What this means is you  often don't end up choosing the  ultimate experiences that you  go through in life. Why is this  particularly important? Number  one, this is premised on the  fact that you are prioritizing  all of these experiences on  Goff. At a point in time, when  certain people are privileged  and they think this privilege  needs to be maximized because  their set of experiences  matters. There is less of an  incentive to give up these  kinds of privileges Because you  realise your individualised  experiences also matter and  therefore you need to maximise  your connection with God. So  you do things like donate a  million dollars to building a  mosque. Because that was the  capacity you were born with.  Rather than thinking it's just  less important to begin with.  The second is the worst case of  this is a lot of people are  oppressed and end up suffering.  The best case of this is you  just undergo randomness. So  some people end up with good  experi Some people end up  with bad experiences. There are  two major harms that operate  out of this. Number one, you  blame yourself for not doing  enough to be religious. you  often don't interpret the  structural barriers. When you  think lf all day,  we see the same problem with  capitalism. It's a very simple  parallel. When you think from  an individualized perspective  at all times, you always try to  compare the next day to the  previous and try see  incremental improvement at  different points in time. So,  when you fail because of  structural barriers that are  beyond your control, you blame  yourself for that failure  rather than blaming external  actors. Number two, you also  are further  when  religious actors exploit this  and tell you that no matter how  much you do, the uncertainty of  what this relationship with God  is like, which is important in  God's word, means they can  like, you know, course you into  continuously doing more and  more every time. So, the more  you pray, the more  more. And y  further put into a cycle of  exploitation. Where what you  are as a self and an  experience, does not matter or  there is no end point.  Ultimately what this means is  even when you do things like  try to discover yourself Things  like anti-religious choices.  You just feel worse because  that choice is something you  subscribe into. Ultimately,  this means all of these   live in existential crises  because they didn't choose  where they ended up in and  therefore, they also suffered  by virtue of that experience  and therefore, they feel bad  because there is the the the  narrative they are fed to all  societies is the fact that this  experience matters. The  comparative is on our side very  simple. Now, on. You just  ignore that these experiences  matter. So even if you don't  get the best outcomes in life,  which happens through  randomness, you are at least  content about it and therefore,  the net unhappiness which is  profit like, you know,  prominent across the world is  reduced. The second is you also  prevent exploitation by  religious groups on the most  vulnerable. That I think is  important. Lastly and more  trivia on social change. I  think it's also important for  majorities to realize that they  themselves and the wealth  capture does not matter. Okay,  sorry, I didn't know my time  was up but the point is it's  just better for people to  experience life not through  randomness but and be unhappy  through it but through  contentment and we're very glad  to oppose.  Alright.  ah judges, are we good to go?  Okay. We thank the leader of  for that speech. We now welcome  the deputy prime minister to  proceed with the opening  government case here here.  That'd be great.  I'm going to start my speech in  three, two, one. My first  wonder about this, other  narratives exist argument.  Because this only one stance  will take opening opposition  out of the debate. Number one,  I can name equally as many  narratives that focus on  self-sacrifice and be or for  the greater good of a  community. Nationalism, family,  so many other things that make  this  amount of choices that you  have. For people that are  especially vulnerable, this has  two benefits. Number one, is if  religion is the main motivator  and influence in your life, it  makes it much less likely that  these figures are going to be  more oppressive. Either, you  don't feel like they actively  impose ideas upon you or even  when they do, you don't  necessarily have to subscribe  to them. And so far as you also  believe that your own  struggles, beliefs, and ways in  which you connect to God are  equally as valuable as whatever  the recommendations are B. So  we're the most vulnerable  individuals. That's where  they're more coercive. But  secondly is and this response  to their point that things like  homophobia existed before these  kinds of sentences of things.  Which this motion is not a  retrospective. This could have  easily equally applied. But  second reason even if  homophobia was an aspect of  that religion. Again it is more  likely that even if the  community around you believes  in these kinds of things. That  you feel like your own personal  experiences and your own source  of moral authority is  sufficient. In order to say  that wrong. That your direct  connection to God and your  sexuality is key and core part  of that. Rather than saying  they are correct. And I must  accept and internalize the  degree of homophobia that  exists within my religion. But  thirdly, I think what they do  not mention is that all these  other narratives do not answer  an existential question. Ay  capitalism might tell you to  work hard to stay alive. But it  will not tell you why you are  alive. And I think that is the  unique nuance of religion.  Because it explains what is the  reason for your purpose? Why  are you here? Why are you on  this earth? And I think the  problem with opposition. Is he  ignored? The degree to which  personal solace matters so much  to the various people that they  cater to. Such that, absent all  the agency, political donation  arguments that exist within  this debate. The most certain  benefit here is that it is much  easier for people to connect to  a life in which they believe  their own personal experiences.  They go through everyday.  Whereas Sajid says we are such  a deep like personal reflection  of why you are on this earth.  And maybe God put you here for  a reason etcetera. As opposed  to thinking that every single  day of your life on this earth  is on important and  unnecessary. The report big  thing to note here about the  comparative opposition is that  often times what they do is  they connect this to some  greater spiritual purpose like  an afterlife or a God that is  either incredibly impersonal  especially when your own  personal experiences and  humanity is ignored. Or so far  in the future that you will  never get to experience it.  That's incredibly important.  Because for a lot of  individuals when their life  isn't so good. When their  material experiences the people  around them. A Sajid says. Are  not very good. Often times  religiously only that give  meaning and purpose. Firstly is  even in bad experiences, often  times, it is religion that  gives a sense that you were not  left behind. That there's  purpose to everything that you  go through. Like when you have  a family member that is sick  and gets better, you feel that  maybe God had intervened in  that manner. Because God values  your own individual and  personal experiences. As well  as the fact you can interpret  and reflect on those  experiences in a manner that  makes their struggles and  connections divine. There's it  much more likely you feel. Like  your religion as an everyday  purpose in your life. Rather  than some arbitrary purpose in  all honesty has yet to be  defined when opening  opposition. So that's  incredibly important. Precisely  because I think it is the most  accessible benefit in this  debate. Absent of all the other  environmental factors that  might exist as a consequence.  But the second thing to note  here is I think David argues  quite concretely. Why should we  get people to rally together in  such that we take human  experiences valuable? That  human struggle is like  admission remove human struggle  and ensure that they are  recognized as important and as  valuable. And you can connect  to other people, You're more  likely to get donations. That  also reflect the kinds of  agency at the experience. The  important thing about this is  that in so far as opening  oppositions case relies on an  incredibly worst case scenario  of you fail, you don't do well,  you don't have a good material  life. Not only do we expand the  number of people who no longer  fall under that category.  Because more and more of them  are being taken out of poverty  and given  the means to do so. And so far  I think it reflects their  choice and what they actually  need in their life. But  moreover, I think this is just  the most material benefit we  can accrue in this debate  versus all the other, like,  arguments coming from opening  opposition, I don't think, are  nearly as important. I'll take  the few reference to you. Yeah,  a higher purpose is often  couched in the material world  through obvious virtues and  valuable things, such as giving  to charity or constantly  engaging in charitable action,  meaning we probably get more  material benefit of those in  need on our side of the house.  So, my question is, why do you  think that solving human  struggle is valuable? If it's  unimportant, I think humanity  is unhappy anyway. If not,  rather than trying to strive  for some greater other purpose,  then again, as yet to be  outlined with opposition bench,  and notably, you need to the  diversity of human experience  is a valuable thing to begin  with in order to attain that  kind of benefit. So it's  unclear to me why that benefit  falls on your side of the  house. Last thing I want to do  is like respond to the POI  coming from closing opposition.  Because they say that  differences instead of being  valued and special are instead  incidental. There are couple  reasons why that is worse.  Firstly, these differences will  often times lead to worse  quality of lives for people  when they are discriminated on  the basis of these differences.  And so far as we believe that  these are incidental,  unimportant It is much easier  to attribute the fact that it  is maybe their own fault  because these differences don't  matter or the fact that or  ignoring a lot of the very real  and genuine struggles that they  have had. In order to ensure  that they get little to no  reparation in the future.  That's important for a couple  of reasons. Firstly, both in  terms of how we react to these  differences. It is much easier  to make up for and ensure a  greater amount of  accommodation. And so far as  you recognize that these  differences exist, that they  matter. And they do not try but  like obfuscate everything in  some big sense of team  Therefore, it's everything is  alright. But secondly, is it  particularly for these  individuals? When they  recognize the part of their  divine process is some kind of  struggle. That these struggles  are important and valued  experiences. Rather than things  that everybody goes through  equally. That even if they had  lived harder lives, they still  are going to be seen as equally  as other individuals. That  instead is celebrated as a  divine and holy purpose in  their path to salvation. It's  much better and gives more  likely comfort and solace to  these individuals. So to the  degree to which we're able to  vote. provide for them and at  the same time give them some  sense of comfort. It is when  you recognize that these  differences exist. The  diversity matters. Not when you  say these differences are  incidental and not meaningful  in whatsoever form. I'm very  proud to propose.  Alright. We thank the deputy  prime minister for that speech.  Um judges.  Alright? We thank the DPM for  that speech. We now welcome the  DLO to proceed with the OO case  and conclude the opening up  here here.  Hi, I'm Audible Invisible. Yes,  you are. Thank you so much.  I'll start my, okay, actually,  before I start my speech, just  want to say that the opinions  of my speech do not reflect my  own opinions, it's just on the  basis of competitive debating,  not not of my employers or  anyone else's. So, with having  said that, I'll start my speech  in three, two, one. The biggest  assumption on opening  government is that, because you  have a religion that centers on  the self, somehow magically,  all unique experiences are  going to individualize to the  extent to which religion  becomes all inclusive and  caters to everyone. We tell you  that this is A, a massive  assumption, or, and B massively  convenient. I'll explain  structurally why? Because what  you need to realise is this  obviously operates in a world  that exist today, which is to  say that vast majority of  religions came about in either  before Christ or after Christ  in the sixth, sixth centuries,  first century and along those  timelines. In those timelines,  it was necessary for religion  to do two things. Number one,  establish social order through  a set of principles that were  then endemic to their time. And  number two, it was also  important in order for a lot of  people to capture power and  rule over particular groups of  people and so on and so forth.  Which means that the  hierarchical structure that  religion has and generally  generally operates under is  important in both sides of the  world structurally because of  the way in which religion  operates. Now the question is,  how is it then relevant for the  centres, the center, the self  experiences and so on and so  forth. In centre the self  experiences, you have choices  experiences, struggles and  connections to God from an  individual perspective that are  that are important, right? But  nobody necessarily is  essentially born an expert of  religion. Which means that  generally speaking when it  comes to like seeking religious  help, seeking religious advice.  You still go to people for  religiousness. So, priests, and  so on and so forth, who are on  top of religious hierarchies  and so on and so forth. But  what is unique to this  particular experience of  choices and so on and so forth,  is, that you value these  choices to utmost importance  using religion as the litmus  paper to judge all of these  choices. What do I essentially  mean by this? If you are then  an individual who is giving,  who, who, who wants to choose  to be an alternative sexuality.  You ask yourself, religion  allow this. And the answer to  that is no, religion wouldn't  allow this because religion  subscribes something else. In  order to establish your  connection to God, you need to  be of a particular sexuality  for that connection to be  established. For opening  governments argument to come  into play here, they have to  advocate for the non existence  of all forms of religious  scriptures that came about in  the world in one way or the  other, which we think is quite  impossible in this particular  instance. What is then the  comparative on our side? The  comparative on our side is,  individual choices do not  matter as much. What, what does  this mean? This means your  spiritual connection to God  generally and the fact that you  have an afterlife and so on and  so forth are things that matter  more more generally. Why is  this important in those  particular cases? Because your  ability to judge someone else  for the individual choices goes  down the point at which you do  not think individual choices  matter as much as you think it  is. But yes, under our side,  yes, you still think it is  possibly a sin and it is  something that is an aberration  from religion. Yes, but you do  not put as much importance to  this as much as you do in  government's world. Why is this  then bad? in terms of impacts?  Because it opens a pathway for  exploitation to a large extent  not just from rulers but  priests and so on and so forth.  How does this happen? This  happens in two ways uniquely.  Number one, because priests and  so on and so for these  hierarchies emerge naturally  within the human existence  anyways. They also prioritize  their own individual connection  to god. So, I as a priest in a  particular community also  prioritize the fact that I need  to maximize my relationship  with god to the fullest extent.  In order to do that, what I  will do is make sure that my  congregation, my followers are  also following religion to the  particular in that particular  instance rather than in a  comparative under our world  where you reject the self and  your own connection to God is  not as important but rather a  general well being of  individuals is more important  because life now matters less  more generally. In those  particular instances you open  up a doorway of exploitation.  So exploitation that opening  government claims under their  side actually happens worse  under their side because then  they can say ah but given that  all of your individual choices  matter and all of these things  matter so much. You need to  follow my word and you need to  follow my word in a way such  that it is for, like, it, it is  important for you to then  maximize your happiness under  religion, and that's quite  important in this particular  case, right? Because then you  allow but secondly, generally  speaking, your, your ability  and the way in which you see  others changes, and that is  particularly important. Why do,  why do I say this? If  individual choices are  important, individual agencies  important and so on and so  forth. You see, as a Christian,  I'm making Christian choices,  and that is very important,  because my individual  connection to God is very, very  important. In those cases, you  judge anyone who is not making  those Christian choices because  these are of utmost priority to  you. You believe that making  Christian choices in this world  is the most important thing for  you and for everyone within  your congregation which opens  up a pathway for A  otherwiseation of different  individuals who are like  generally minority religions  but B, authorization of  individuals even within your  family. So, if you think your  your son or daughter is  probably becoming someone of  alternative sexuality, then you  start suppressing them and  that's horrible. Before I move  on, I'll take one for closing a  bit. So, even if hierarchy is  bad in the abstract sense, what  you've yet to prove is that  given the hierarchies do exist  in either world, why if I'm  doing what the hierarchy tells  me and that makes me a happier  person, why that's an  intrinsically bad thing? Okay,  that's an interestingly bad  thing mostly because we have  accepted generally within this  debate that religion is, it  generally gives you certain  horrible ideas because of the  way in which structural  religions have come about. So,  for example, vast majority of  major religions in the world,  six to six point five billion  people may be even more than  that, exist within religions  that came before century and  before which means that is  quite horrible in general in  this particular instance. That  is why it's important for you  to reject the self and the  hierarchical like hierarchical  teachings coming in are not as  important which means that in a  way because you are rejecting  the self and because you are  reject ing that this life is  something that is way too  important. You are able to then  abstractly find happiness in  other sources. And this is  where Sajid's argument becomes  very important, right? In a  capitalistic world where you  don't have a lot of control  over a lot of things and this  is not just like this is not  just restricted to material  wealth, this is also restricted  to things like religiosity.  Vast majority of us, if you  look at it from a religious  lens, even religious people  commit a lot of acts of sin  throughout their lives. In  those circumstances, if they  then come to assess their life  as to, oh, what about my  individual connection to God?  You end up in a self  deprecating state where because  you did not have enough money,  you did not have enough time to  pray, because you did not have  enough money, you did not have  enough ability to contribute to  religious charities, religious  beliefs and so on and so forth.  That's why you go into a self  deprecation mode because who  have power always have captured  more important places in  religion. Biden of things like  contributions, by the end of  things like capturing positions  of priesthood and so on and so  forth. In those circumstances,  a rejection of self uniquely  allows you to then tell, tell  yourself that look, I have made  sense in my life. I may not  have been as rich or even  middle class to a certain  extent. But because this life  is not as important, I can  prioritize something else and I  can get happiness from  something else. This is  uniquely important in this  particular instance because  things like nationalism and  other collectivistic identities  do not uniquely allow you to  access happiness from these  things because even things like  nationalism and so on and so  forth are tied to some form of  collective collective material  like goals such as like  economic growth and stuff like  that. This is a unique form of  identity that allows you to  abstract yourself, put you,  yourself away from the material  life that you have and then get  happiness from outside and that  happiness is the true form of  happiness that you can get.  Under our world, you have less  religious exploitation and  under our world, you have  happier individuals incredibly  proud to oppose.  Are we ready to go? before I  start the time, I just want to  say like two quick sentences.  Number one, I want to thank  Brian, my partner. This has  been an incredible run. I don't  think we ever thought we would  get here and this is probably  our last chance at this  tournament and so, thank you  for making the last three years  of debate like just an  incredible time. I wouldn't  have done it with anybody else.  Um and secondly, thank you to  all teams and judges  in this room and throughout the  tournament. I mean, if we don't  make it to the final round,  we're definitely going to be  cheering you all on. All of you  are fantastic debaters and a  really setting the pace for  this activity. So, it's just a  pleasure to be in with all of  you.  but with all of that said,  starting time now, I'll be  damned if we lose to that case  from opening opposition. Our  position on closing government  is quite simple. Despair is  worse than suffering every  single time and people need to  believe that they can change  their lives regardless of  whether or not that is the case  in order for them to attain  happiness. There are other  factors in this debate, of  course, there are. There are  other people who can impact  your life. There are other  economic forces that can impact  your life. Of course, there  are. But we think that the most  important thing in this debate  is how you as a person who is  facing suffering, who is facing  tough odds, gives yourself in  relation to others, and you  view your life. That is the  single greatest margin of  change we can make for billions  of people all around the world.  Because all of the change that  we want is happening far too  slow. And in the meantime  people need a reason to be  alive. There are several  premises to our extension. The  first premise is many people ri  OO gives you all the mex for  this so I'm going to skip it.  But the reasoning is quite  simple. Yes. Deterministically  there are reasons why people  are given a poor lot in life.  There are systems like  capitalism that include and  exploit certain groups. There  are immaterial differences that  nonetheless get privileged for   All of that means that millions  or billions of people will  continue to suffer. They will  continue to starve, not have  clean water, not have been  sanitation. They will watch  their children die from disease  and nothing is going to change.  At least not fast enough.  Second premise of the extension  then. Why do we afford people  some level of agency and why is  that agency good? There are  four mechanisms for this  argument and what we're  going to do is be as  comparative, specific, and  exclusive as possible, engaging  with the best form of OO's  analysis on all of these  claims. But briefly, what do we  do on our side. We tell you  that even if your condition is  bad, your individual  contribution to life still has  matters. And I think an example  of this is Hinduism. A religion  that has karma which says that  what you put into this world  will come back to you in some  form. And if it doesn't come  back to you in the form of  other people treating you well  on this earth. It will come  back to you in the form of a  future life. Where you can  reincarnate and have a better  life in the future.  Simultaneously. It tells you  that if you're in a bad  situation right now it's not  your fault. Because that's the  consequences of a past life  that you could not meaningfully  control. matters is whether you  benchmark yourself from where  you are and make a difference  in this life, that's what's  going to matter. I'll recognize  why this is what religion will  look like, but I think that is  the most prominent example.  Four mechanisms. The first one  is, you give people an internal  locust of control. That is  people now have a sense of  control over their life and  religion tells you that you can  do X and that can improve your  law in life or in heaven.  Whereas on their side, you  necessarily have to be agnostic  to what religion tells you to  do on this earth. And so you  don't have that same sense of  purpose and belief that change  is possible or that change is  good. So, yes going to say this  could be bad because religion  is going to give you bad things  to do, right? That maybe you're  not going to do the things that  are the most helpful for you or  maybe you're not actually going  to be able to achieve those  things. Our claim on this point  is quite simple. Just the  belief that doing something has  the possibility to help is  enough. In the same way that up  improve your mental health  regardless of whether or not  your back condition gets any  better or you have to go back  to working in 8 hour job. In  that very same way, just taking  the first step, puts you in a  mental frame that you are in  control of the situation and  our brains are programmed to  shut when we believe that we  are helpless and unable to  control our situation. This is  why we are concerned about  learned helplessness in babies  who don't get to engage or move  around because they feel like  they don't have control of  their circumstances and even at  the age of one or two, it can  have a dramatic impact on these  people's brains. The same is  true for human individuals.  Second, constructive claim.  This changes your frame of  reference. It tells you to  benchmark versus where you are  and where everyone else is or  instead of doing that, it tells  you to benchmark from where you  are. Here's where we engage  with OO who says there are  other individualistic  narratives. We completely agree  and that is the reason why we  need to differentiate here.  Their example is capitalism.  Capitalism does tell you to be  individualistic but in very  different ways. It is a  meritocratic system that judges  you based on your contribution  to the economy. And so how much  it caters to you and gives you  a fulfilling narrative is  directly proportional to how  much economic weight you bring  to the table. But per OO's  analysis those things are  contingent. They are arbitrary  and not everybody gets to win  under systems like capitalism.  So when you don't become  wealthy, when you don't attain  your economic goals, you tell  yourself I've failed in life  and compare yourself to other  people and given that  narratives like capitalism  exist, it's very hard for OO to  convince you that your  suffering is not something you  should be worried about because  capitalism is still going to be  telling you that you should be  worried about it. Religion is  different in two key respects.  The first one is it's a  community-oriented system. So,  it specifically relies on what  you bring to a community which  typically is less based on  immutable characteristics and  that you can contribute to a  community in many different  types of ways that depend on  your specific characteristics.  So, you can be a good friend to  people. You can be charitable.  If you're wealthy, you might  donate but poor. You might just  spend time taking care of the  children of your friends or  your family members. All of  these are meaningful ways in  which you can contribute. The  second religion is different is  that it directly has the goal  of prosthetizing and getting as  broad or reach as possible and  so it tries to be favorable to  the poor since that is the  majority of people. That is the  reason why Catholicism says it  is easier for a camel to pass  through the eye of a needle  than it is for a rich man to  enter the kingdom of God and  emphasizes the good works of  the poor even though the law  and life that they were given  is so much worse. This also  then can directly engage with  the hierarchy claims that we  get from OO A, if there is  hierarchy, this is true on  either side of the house. But  now, if you don't care about  your life, that hierarchy is  still going to tell you, while  your life is like kind of not  that important, you might as  well serve the interest of God,  and that hierarchical structure  still applies. But B and more  importantly, the warrants I've  given you are reasons why the  hierarchical structure of  religion is still more  inclusive in terms of what it  tells you to do than the things  that other systems that  capitalism might tell you to  do. And final engagement with  this argument, it doesn't  really matter what it tells you  to do. It just matters that you  assign value to it and that  makes you happy. the PUI just  did not get a sufficient  response. Third mechanism,  people can actually make change  in their lives and the lives of  others and that's a real  benefit. So, even if it's true  that like determinism is there,  even within determinism, what  belief systems you have does  preset, what kind of outcomes  you're going to get, and our  claim is when you believe that  you can make change, you take  those additional steps, right?  You actually make effort to  contribute to your family, to  your community. You try to edge  up a little bit better and a  small number of people actually  agitate for change and try to  change the world and that can  have really meaningful impacts.  Before that, I'll give a shot.  Obviously, this is dependent on  your understanding of what it  means to reject or define the  self. But obviously that  changes on the comparative.  What do religious structures do  on your side? I'm about to get  there. But really quickly on  this point I think that when  people agitate for change it A  gives other people hope. But B  actually does create change.  And even a small number of  people trying to change the  world because they believe it  will help them get closer to  God or make a difference  between has a huge impact that  Brian will weigh in the next  speech. Why is the counter  factual worse? A other  individualistic narratives are  still going to dominate. The  analysis from before. B might  say you should just care less  about your suffering. Here's  why we think that this is not  enough to overcome our case.  The first reason why is just  despair is stronger than  suffering. People can adapt to  suffering and that they can  rebench mark where they are  over time and find a way to  live with it. But also the  margin of change in just  forgetting that that suffering  is happening is very very hard  on your side. Not just because  of other narratives but for two  additional reasons. One is that  suffering has a physical  element. Is that even if you  don't care that your position  sucks? Like if you're hungry,  you're starving, you're  going to feel that pain either  way. You can't really change  that. And two is that suffering  is a element is that even if  you don't the fact  that you are suffering, if your  kid is suffering, you are still  about that because they might  not have the same beliefs as  you. So, s is that  you believe that you can try to  improve your condition and  doing that still makes you a  good personDoing that still  assigns g to your life.  At the end of the debate,  change is going to happen  slowly but even when it comes  to change, we get more of it.  If we don't get that change,  then, what's most important is  that people feel like their  life has meaning and for  billions of people for whom  change is too slow, they  continue to trudge forward. We  are exceptionally proud to  propose the motion.  Alright, we thank the member of  government for that speech. We  now welcome them in the tion st  opposition Kingsley area.  Am I Obel, yeah? Yes, you are.  Cool.  We  need to look for God in the  machine. The structures which  disseminate God's words for  good and evil. We will talk  about religious structures and  why they are far superior under  religions which reject the  self. But firstly three things  to say. Firstly, as a disc  prefers worship this has  prefers motion. It's not  retrospective but it's just a  general assessment of how this  kind of belief changes a  religion, what they teach  people, but also the kind of  structures which inform it. IE,  whether a religion with this  doctrine is better than one,  without. Secondly to say, is  that as you can see in the rest  of this debate, often times our  understanding of it means to  reject the self or the centre  of the self are based off of  subjectivity and the  connotations and the teachings  and the interpretations which  are foisted upon us or at least  engaged with or like through us  by religious structures  themselves. As a couple of  examples for this, I think you  can say that for example, OG's  idea about direct connection to  God, you can say that that  could be dependent on a  mediator like a priest or you  can say that it's direct in of  itself, that depends on what  you understand reject ing or  accepting the narrative to mean  the idea of difference is  whether they matter in a moral  sense or whether they should be  something we should value et  cetera. All depending on what  you on how you in turn like  internalise the rejection of  itself in and of itself. I also  think that the idea from DLO  here on like gay people being  accepted because of their  choices like that is also  dependent on what kind of  structures the religions have  and the incentives they have in  terms of how they portray this  belief towards people. The  third thing that I want to say  in this is to do with closing  government is firstly I just  don't understand why we can't  have agency and choice on our  side of the house. That's not  what this narrative is  presenting to us. But secondly  I think that even if you don't  have a sense of your internal  perception of experiences being  valuable as something you  should strive for that doesn't  mean you don't fight for other  kinds of purpose. Which is to  say religion often is based on  the idea of morality and  virtue. I think it's actually  better in a lot of instances if  someone is fighting for justice  for themselves because they  believe it is just rather than  the instrumental benefits that  they would get from it. Now  moving on to the extension.  Couple of things. Firstly why  does this narrative form  religious structures? Firstly  it's extremely strong because  it forms the basis for all  future doctrine. I IE as a  moral question of religion and  the theonthological questions  of your relation to God. You  first must have an answer to  the question of human  experience which is say,  whether you're, like, your  lives are valuable or not.  Secondly, I think they form  from the macency. Even if they  don't exist in such defined  terms and they accept at the  like inception of religion, the  fundamental question of  humanity, IE, why do we exist,  is one which religions seek to  answer because science cannot.  Therefore, this was a necessary  part of the answer to that  question in the initial stages  of our religions formation.  Thirdly, in terms of belief,  right? Individual believers  when the religion was in the  minority, oftentimes strongly  believe in the doctrine of that  religion and form the  structures of religion on that  basis and also this incentive  leads to two things. Firstly,  you would get internal  disagreement if you went  against the message of the  religion in terms of the  structures but also external  criticism for being  hypocritical if you set up a  religion structures in a way  that was empathetical towards  the belief systems about that  religion. Therefore, the belief  system are like this specific  belief is likely to form the  basis of the structures of  religion. How does it change  religious ures? We will  propose to you and it becomes  less hierarchical and it has  more checks and balances and  more accountable structures  within religion. One of the  reasons of this. Firstly,  you've less incentive to seize  power a believer, as an  individual member of the  church, whether that be a, you  know, a priest or an imam,  etcetera. Because you,  yourself, don't believe that  that experience of power will  be something valuable in and of  itself. Secondly, there's a  conceptual translation here,  which is to say, when you  centre the self, you centre the  idea of struggle and  overcoming. It positions an  ability for someone to be  superior over others, as can be  pointed to, IE, myself and my  experience, the better, because  I've seen more of the world, or  I have a better connection to  God, etcetera. It's necessarily  a qualitative thing that can be  differentiated within people,  and also differentiated along  of power. IE your ability to  portray yourself as being that  as being that individual is not  necessarily tied to your actual  being of that individual. You  also have less legitimacy then  therefore if you were to try  and seize power on our side of  the house because noone human  experience is intrinsically  valuable. No one understanding  or interpretation of religion  is intrinsically better and  therefore greater experiences  and overall better thing.  Thirdly I just think  epidemically you're less likely  to tie into one individual's  belief about what a religion is  teaching you. I IE like an  individual priest or imam  because you don't believe it in  the of their experiences any  more than you would believe in  just the general understanding  of things. Therefore, overall,  it seems to be the case that  religions are going to be less  hierarchical in their structure  because the ability to seize  power and hold onto it and not  relinquish it is much much  decreased on our side of the  house. Now, hierarchy, for the  reasons outlined, religions  developed to be less  hierarchical, yet more councils  and fewer popes. You get fewer,  you know, priests telling being  told what they must be teaching  on their sermon on a Sunday.  You get less individual  priests, you know, not foisting  their individual beliefs on  their flocks, right? Therefore,  you have three key impacts.  Firstly, more checks and  balances because Elite Capture  is extremely difficult under  our side of the house because  you're less able to do things  like manipulation, like  acquisition of power, and the  ability to do things like  massively increased tides when  the, when the, you know, the,  the, the, the harvest hasn't  come in properly. The ability  to hide scandals of abuse and  that kind of thing. You instead  stick to things like altruism  and virtue formation as the  premises of your beliefs.  Secondly, get less rigid  doctrine, right? Because  there's less power or incentive  to have a set belief structure,  because your self  understanding, your individual  understanding or not  necessarily take primacy within  the larger religious structure.  Which means three things.  Firstly, you get more  liberalization over time as the  trend of the of humanity  liberalising is now allowed to  coalesce with a religious trend  that is hamstrung on their side  of the house. Secondly, you can  get more personalized belief  structures, IE individuals can  attune their own beliefs based  off of their experience of  their life, based off of the  holy book, or what they  themselves believe to be their  interpretation as being more  correct. It's more flexible and  therefore gives people more  fulfillment. And thirdly, yet  less manipulation of doctrine  towards the negative ends  individuals within it who  attempt to seize power or want  to swing politics or do other  things like that. When 30, you  just get less authority and of  itself, right? Because  individual's ability to pick  and choose either whether they  want to be a member of relation  or the degree to which they  enter into that religion or the  degree to which they can pick  and choose some beliefs but not  others and get like, you know,  homeostasis between different  religious beliefs is much much  higher on our side of the  house. Before I move on to the  weighing of this opening  government. If morality is now  at the basis of meaning, don't  religious authority still rise  rather than one where religions  overall think that individuals  have more say over their  connection with God. The idea  of human religious choice no  matter that morality it can't  impose. No no because the whole  point of it is that you can't  you don't have individuals  seeking a power. So yes  individual religious leaders  might want to portray morality  or improve morality in the  grand scale. But they don't  believe that their  interpretation of morality or  their interpretation of  religion should be the one that  takes primacy and therefore  they don't seek out that  individualated power. Two  elements of weighing along the  rest of the debate. Firstly  most people do not engage with  theological doctrine for most  of their life or at least  specifically misbelief. Absent  of justification of this from  the rest of the debate. They're  losing. Operations exist. But  they do interact with the  structure the church  themselves. Whether that means  they're being titheed more or  being abused or manipulated.  And not only people outside  religions are affected as well  like secular women or queer  people being decided their  rights by religious lobbying.  Notably the people who are the  most into religion IE the  people that are impacted by the  rest of the debate are the most  prone to abusive manipulation.  So on scale and vulnerability  were weighing there. But  secondly these beliefs as an  axiom can be spun by like  incentivized powerful  individuals. Do you mean a  number of different things?  Look at the top half clash  right? There's rejection of the  self mean altruism. Does it  mean vulnerable people  suffering? Doesn't matter. We  say that better religious  structures. that you're like  more likely to get better  interpretations and teachings  of these beliefs. I either  actual impacted in the real  world on our side of the house  uniquely. This beats top half  but particularly OG who are  particularly hung on that  comparative. The basis upon  which you should adjudicate  this debate is on which side do  religious structures get  better? Because of the  instrumental benefits that  gives to the largest amount of  people but also to the degree  that it changes how these  religions teach their beliefs  in and of themselves. I'm  exceptionally proud to oppose.  Alright. We thank the member of  opposition for that speech. We  now welcome the government to  conclude the CG case. Judges  are we ready? Okay.  Okay. Am I I'm good? Audible?  As you  It's quite telling that when OO  tells us that suffering able, t  from it is just to ignore it,  which is the framework that  those in positions of power  have wished to to indoctrinate  people on for the last hundreds  of years. So, I'm going to talk  about two things in my speech.  Firstly, I want to talk about  why it is, that in the context  where it is true, that  suffering is inevitable, the  solace that you can get from  centering yourself through  religion is a IRI in this  debate. Secondly, I'll talk  about why it is even if it is  relevant to improve material  condition, the only mechanism  that is given to you in this  debate is when Dishbesh  explains to you how agitation  for change can actually lead to  us living better lives. The  first thing though, I want to  talk about is the solace that  you can actually gain from  religion because I think this  was the biggest gap in opening  government's analysis. They  flag an argument about agency  but if you really look at it on  flow, it's more so an argument  about politics. Their only real  line of here is just that  because you feel that everyone  is special and that you feel  that you are special, you  should feel good about it. With  the explains to you uniquely  here is two things, right?  Firstly, that the internal  locust of control that the  sense of control is a  intrinsically good to you. But  also that practically speaking,  it is taking the first step in  fielding as though you have  control that can often times  lead you to have much more  control and positive outlooks  in your life. But secondly,  it's also about the frame of  reference, right? The fact that  the other teams in this house  to compare centering yourself  or centering your your your  soul to things like capitalism.  It's just an example of how  they don't understand how it is  that these types of religions  can allow you to view  self-improvement, right? It  doesn't just come through the  ways like charity that open a  government talks about but it  comes to every little act that  you can take to improving your  lives or improving the lives of  those around you and when it  looks like you improving on  what you previously were in a  position of, it is the easiest  way in which you can achieve  happiness, not just right? The  first response that we get from  opposition is that they say ah  But maybe religion is bad and  so if you are coerced to doing  bad things then you are  probably going to leave a worse  off life. I want to point out  three things here, right? The  first thing to point out here  is that their only line of  analysis here is that religion  is bad because it is old. They  don't actually explain to you  why it is intrinsic in the in  the reasoning why behind  religion telling you to do  things is always going to lead  to worse outcomes. I have two  reasons why this is probably  not true, right? The first  reason is that religions do  have incentive  to change, right? Especially  ones that tell you to center  yourself because these tend to  be religions that want to and  extend their influence. But  secondly, note that religion is  also becoming far more  individualized. And this  slightly deals with but I'll  also deal with more so about  the hierarchy argument coming  from closing opposition. Which  is to say that because you have  a much more autonomous decision  around your individualized  experience with with religion.  The choices that you make in  your view of what connects you  to God is ever shifting and  it's always improving to  benefit individuals. the end of  the day, even if all of that is  not true, the solace that this  grants you, irrespective of  what decisions you're making,  it's also something that we  would say outweighs any  material harm that they could  talk about. The second thing  that they suggest is, you know,  perhaps this could end up  starting religious conflicts or  starting wars, right? I want to  point out three things, right?  The first thing they know that  this isn't a retrospective  motion. So, you can't just  caveat to say that the status  quo was really bad. So, we have  to defend the crusades on our  civil health. But the second  thing to note here is, even if  you want to talk about this  historical comparative, I would  say that this, this imperative  better looks like on your side  when oppressors are allowed to  do the fullest extent of their  will. Because there's no  agitation to prevent further  suffering when individuals have  internalized that suffering is  a necessity within their life.  But even if it is true the even  if it is true that this  conflict will necessarily  happen. I would argue a lot of  the conflict that they talk  about has tended to become  agitation for good as history  has progressed. Lastly then I  want to deal with closing  opposition's argument on  hierarchy, right? They the  issue with their argument is is  as such. They point out things  like how fundamental control  and abuse of religion can be  bad. But the issue here is that  this control and abuse of  religion comes as the leverage  of power. So the question then  is, given that historically,  there has always been power and  balance and that people will  always use whatever mechanism  they can to abuse this power  and get themselves like selfish  benefit. How then can you solve  it, right? In the real way that  you can actually get around  this is when Devesh explains to  you why the agitation of change  is much more likely on our  side. The comparative becomes  when you have the motivation  not only to improve the  conditions of your life and  follow but also follow the most  visible cues of improving the  lives around you. You're most  likely going to be able to  shatter hierarchy in the same  way that we see that religions  that center yourself have  gradually progressed towards  becoming more individualized.  But the biggest problem with  both OO and CO is that there's  literally zero reasons given  why it is that on net  hierarchy. It's in  intrinsically bad thing, right?  We can see that there are no  checks and balances. But then  what? If people think that  their lives improving and feel  more satisfied in their lives,  we still win, right? Saying  that the religion is old and  sometimes has traditional  values is not a mechanism. We  mechanize why religion has the  incentive to be inclusive and  therefore, will inevitably  evolve through time. The  mechanism here being very  unclear is very important,  right? Because if human  experiences matter, then,  people are more likely to  challenge hierarchy. There can  see their acts on their on the  earth, connecting them to God.  So, even if they disagree with  their church, they can still  push back. This is why the  founders of Protestantism still  believe the revolutionary  action was God's will.  Comparatively speaking,  hierarchy still forms on their  side, right? Even if your life  doesn't matter, someone has A,  someone has to A, bring people  in to convince them of a  narrative, that convinces them  of that, and B, tell people  what to do if they aren't  spending time caring about  their lives, right? Usually, it  means spending time serving the  church instead of serving  yourself, since you've already  taken, since you've already  been taken care of, since  you're apathetic to your  suffering, but the church will  help educate others of the  exact same thing going on into  the future. I also that this is  a perfect transition to the  second claim in my in my case  which is that why is it that  even if it is relevant to  improve material condition that  only ever happens on our side,  right? I think both sides agree  that material conditions  irregardless of your religious  orientation are likely going to  affect you, right? And explains  to this, that escapism isn't  enough to deter this claim  because physical suffering,  it's it's conditioned on like  nothing irrespective of your  mental state, but secondly,  even if you don't care about  your personal physical  suffering, you still care about  those I think opening  governments only claim here is  that on the macro levels,  things like charity can  potentially help people. What I  think is really important that  Devesh pointed out here is that  people in positions where they  seek to prove themselves  naturally happens within the  ecosystem that includes things  like capitalism and politics.  So, in this comparative, when  you're agnostic to suffering,  you will never decide to create  change but when you care, you  can feel as though you have a  purpose to improve your lives  and naturally, this takes  progressives. Sure, for some  people, this may look like  incrementally improving your  material sides of your lives  but for who are in positions  where they can create more  change. This can look like  groundbreaking, groundbreaking  movements where they want to  improve the lives of those  around them because they feel  as though this is God's  purpose. Especially considering  the fact that Devesh explained  to you why it is relativistic  to your position. What you need  to do for the church. And we've  got no response from closing  opposition. At the end of the  day the the three reasons why  we outweigh every other team.  Is firstly we get more change  which is objectively good by  everyone's metric. Second we  have changed of the wash. It is  more important to focus on  being happy. And thirdly if in  terms of being happy despair is  even worse than suffering. You  can't really change suffering  but you can add meaning to  these people's lives. I'm very  proud to propose.  Alright, we thank the  government whip for that  speech. We now welcome the  opposition group to start the  CO case. Judges, are we ready?  Alright.  opposition whip.  Well, the story of religion is  that Beauty and the Beast.  Faith is beautiful but  hierarchies are beastial. The  first thing we're known to do  in this speech is toss out the  closing government case. They  broadly focus on agency in the  way they know that people can  agitate change once that is  doing so. They have three broad  mechanisms. The first of which  is that you have these internal  locusts that you control and  the third of which is the  ability that you believe that  you can be the cause of change.  We say these are similar enough  so that these responses will  deal with all of them. One,  what's crucial is that become  part of this debate not the  denial of free will in another  It is to say that your  individual experience is not  important important but  you can still have control over  it. Not crucially because the  religion wants you to do  certain things and engage in  certain actions. It's often  actually going to say you do  have a choice but there is a  right choice that's often been  pinning a rally which is which  is the within most religions.  Therefore, these two mechanisms  which are crucial to most of  their case are not probably  comparative. But secondly,  crucially, I think on either  side of the debate, people  believe internally that they  are the in control of their own  lives, that they have free  will, because think about the  very way you ask you're making  decision. For example, should I  spend more time on OG or CG in  this debate? The very idea of  that craft question presumed  the the ability for free will  that I can choose which one of  those two things I will do. The  very way we think and  rationalize and make them do is  presume we are internally in  control of our own lives and we  have the ability to make  decisions. Therefore, this is  non comparative. But third of  all, this is crucial. Dylan  point out that we have peoplefor motivations and eyesight. For  ideas of higher purpose and  morality, we say this is  important because crucially,  government don't say well that  change is always good. If  people believe they have the  ability to change the world,  they may do so to gain control  of a society that they  shouldn't have control over. We  say when you're doing it along  moral lines for higher  purposes, the change is more  likely to be good in more  instances different if we even  get less of this. We say it's  more positive on the long run.  The second mechanism that they  do is that you don't care about  your life therefore you're  exploding. I'm going to way off  here. Because crucially we  reduce the capacity to exploit  people in other ways. Because  first of all it's less it's  less rigid text. So you're able  to insert yourself in the  negotiating kind of statements  and the religious doctrines  that are being put out with  you. So you're not going to be  as easily exploited because you  can kind of choose what action  you want to take within the  broad faith. But secondly  because less hierarchy.  You don't defer to authority.  You don't have the corporate  capture. You have the checks  and balances. That's the  crucial part. Because secondly  even if the capacity is  somewhat even we reduce the  incentive within  exploit. Because ultimately  when religions are directed by  virtue and councils where  they're not all bribed and  bought off. And you can just  buy off one pope far easier on  government side of the house.  That is when you have faith.  There's not being used to  exploit and to manipulate  people. That is when you have  faith which is genuine and is  not exploding people on the  ground. We have beaten.  First thing, it's on agency.  I'm going to rebook this. We d   evaluation of differences is in  and of itself is what makes you  differentiate between people.  If there's differences are  incidental, you don't care. The  response of this is, yeah,  because it's unimportant, we're  going to attack some importance  to it. Obviously, that's very  hard to do within the faith  where you're saying the self  and characteristics and  identity within the self is  unimportant to them go forward.  Uh but my decisions were right  and these are other. And this  is the best part. The second  response here, is that  crucially, you get the  promotion of a majoritarian  entities on government bench.  Because crucially the people at  the top of the hierarchies they  say my individual experience is  is is what is important because  people because they can only  use their own individual  experience to propel this.  Meaning that very very  majoritarian identities being  expanded by fakes. This is what  we've seen historically through  Christianity is what continuing  in the status quo. So crucially  then you dissuade those unlike  you. Meaning ultimately you do  get lesser. You do get more  targeting of minorities and so  on on this other house. The  second broad case is that you  will help others. Because their  experience is special too.  Notice the the response of the  first part of the case takes us  out. , let me just trade  this off. Because crucially, I  just wanted that in a POI. If  people are living according to  higher purpose more and more,  this often looks like things  like giving to charity. If  they're spending more time on  this, there's probably just  trades off, right? The idea  that yeah, so you may have a  more version to help people  because you've been very very  special. On our side, we have a  motivation to help people  because we believe it's what  we're meant to do within this  material world and therefore  these things trade off. What  are the responses we hear to  our case? I just want to toss  these out. The first is that  there's still more morality in  this thing so you get hierarchy  to people to fix other people's  things. Dylan responds very  clearly that you don't seek out  the paradox. So you don't try  to create a hierarchy within  your religion. Even if you are  making moral statements. And  the best part about this is is  that the reason why you do not  create immorality. You do not  try to create a hierarchy when  you're calling it different  moral claims. Is that doing so  would be a contravenence of a  of that said morality. Because  the morality is probably  somewhat centred on rejection  of the self. If the self is  unimportant you should not say  be lustful. Or have huge to be  at the top and  that very moral  is something you're unlikely,  in fact, not able to do anyway.  Secondly, the proposals  incentives to change over time.  Sure, but you have more more  elite capture, meaning those  incentives are reduced, and  also have more rigidity,  meaning it's harder to change  with the time, the obviously  win this comparatively. And  third of all, the leverage of  power, the idea that anyway,  which would have been used as a  leverage a parrot. It would  have been tried to. But we are  clear, you have less ability to  use religion as a level of  power, because you have checks  and balances. Of open  interpretation and you've less  deference to authorities. So in  this case clearly clearly  lands. Before I weigh this g go  it is the case that both  narratives can be subjectively  interpreted.  also tions  Take power. Just at least. No.  No. No. No. Because if I take  power in saying I matter more  than you. Crucially if any  individual experience matters.  That is what's crucial in terms  of deferring out a quote.  Communitarian kind of rule.  Obviously there will not be no  hierarchies because humanity is  hierarchical. We have far  reduced hierarchies in our side  and you've better ability to  engage with this. What does  this do? It takes it over OO  when they talk about  exploitation. Because they  posit one narrative which  allows you to exploit people.  We talk about the very capacity  to exploit people and the way  that people engage those  narratives. But we also  crucially mechanise the the  idea of where the incentive to  exploit people and how that  becomes comparative. Meaning if  this debate is about  exploitation we should be more  persuasive than opening  opposition. Would they also  talk about escapism? And I  think we're crucial here too.  Because crucially as the deputy  prime minister points out there  are other kinds of similar  narratives. So this probably  helps but doesn't overcome the  crushing world around you. So  crucially it makes OO quite  marginal in the way that  they've delivered their own  case. However we have the best  path towards escapism. Towards  accessing the good life.  Because able to attach your own  experiences even though they're  not important because obviously  that's just the way you think  To faith. Because it's more  open. Because you're able to  have the fulfillment and make  your faith somewhat close to  you and be able to relate to it  easier rather than when it's  about sex identities. Meaning  we access that escapism more.  This also takes it over OG when  they talk about agency and  vulnerable groups. Because it  comes in analytically prior and  flips it. The incentive to  discriminate. The ability to  discriminate. That is where  Dylan comes in before the  opening government case on the  chain and flips it. But it's  also is easier to connect with  faith. The deputy prime  minister talked about the  ability to connect to faith. We  obviously flipped that when it  went easier to connect with  individually when it's got less  sex doctrine. So you're able to  place yourself within it more.  Trannel the story of religion  is that of the beauty and the  beast. Faith is beautiful. We  maximise it. Hierarchies are  beast deal. We reduce them and  their power. Thank you.  We thank the opposition room  for that speech. We've now come  to the end of the round.  Congratulations everyone. Well  done. Well done. We've come to  the end of the round. Cross  house. Shake hands. Wave at one  another. Great round. And ja.  So 