Video Link: https://youtu.be/mR6UTag8Fss

Video Motion: This House Would ban the use of advanced analytics in political campaigns.

Video Title: Belgrade WUDC 2022 Quarterfinals Room 1

Transcript:
 chat, but please, please also  time yourself, it's important  that you will be able to take  like a POIs in the, before the  protected time, that's  important part of engagement,  so please, please keep that in  mind, that being said, I think  we are ready to start the round  and I'm very happy to call the  Prime Minister to open this  debate.  Hello, can I be heard? Great. I  would just open my camera.  Great. The middle office. So if  you hear noise, I don't have  anything, I can't, I can't do  anything else. sorry. Uh, I  will just have to take the L  during my speech if there's  noise. Yeah, great. Starting my  speech in, oh, yeah, EY is in  chat. Starting my speech in  Three, two, and one. We place a  variety of existing  restrictions on political  campaigns when they threaten  the ability to subvert the will  of the populous or increase  radically the amount of  inequality such that it is not  a true election. How will we  ban analytics specifically  advanced analytics? First of  all, judge us as a note, we  will use these specific forms  of banning to prove that it is  very, very difficult to do, or  if they can still do it, their  impact is small and extremely  limited. And a wholesale ban is  the only way to realistically  regulate these things. So there  are two main methods of  banning. Number one is we will  ban with that consultancy firms  and do audits on the  capabilities of your employees  as well as the campaign teams  of the politicians themselves.  So it's very hard to develop  insights with large data sets  in order to use it. Secondly  though we will also track their  expenditures. So in the same  way that we track any you know  political campaigns, political  budget, we will ban them from  using targeted advertising  through proxy. So for example  they can't use Facebook for  campaigns. So even if they have  these insights, they can't be  productively used to target  people and they can't be used  on a wide scale because if they  did obviously we'd be able to  track them. We will also work  with corporations such as if we  even if get all the tech  consultancy firms, we will get  platforms to cut off certain  APIs to use a certain features  such that we can't use those  tech firms. Briefly, why is  this impossible to regulate  without a wholesale ban? And by  the way, we're also willing to  defend a world where it's  properly regulated and that's  still inherently bad. But just  the fact that it is impossible  to regulate, it makes it worthy  of a ban itself. There are five  reasons. One, the line is  impossible to define. The use  of selective regulation for  what is or isn't polarizing can  be taken advantage of the by  the incumbent party. The  incumbent party, increasing the  amount of inequality and the  amount of of parity in that  election. Two, parity is almost  impossible. Since inequality  means that social media will  sell it to the highest bidder,  provide data sets and  algorithms have an incentive to  exclude political parties that  won't support them. Hence this  gets an increasing amount of  control in the in use in the in  the political scene. Thirdly,  Fiat is on our side. Since  while public understanding of  individual regulations is weak,  there is a widespread  understanding that generally  use of AI to manipulate people  as bad. That's why there's a  very, very large push against  Cambridge analytics as a whole,  but not so much push for a  specific form of regulation.  Four, it's used in advance also  improves its ability to evade  regulation by becoming  increasing life like and  imitate humans. Hence the only  way for us to stop it would be  to stop them from contracting  in the first place or to stop  their widespread use on social  media. And fifthly is that the  truth is that reliable  indicators are just not there.  When political campaigns pay  out to build better language  generating models. Scientists  and talent goes away from the  truthful analytics. It could  take their job and goes into  making these models better and  better. We have three arguments  in the speech. One, AI impedes  access to democratization in  three ways. Number one, it's  used, allows it to make  widespread propaganda with AI  being able to optimize for the  palatability of individuals. As  being indistinguishable from  other humans. Essentially being  able to fabricate social  consensus out of thin air.  Number two, moreover, fake  information also allows it to  have the ability to fool fact  checkers such that it is  difficult for you to be able to  distinguish true information  from fake information.  Remember, democracy is only  important in so far as you're  able to determine that the  facts that you are debating on  or the truths or the platforms  you're debating on will  actually be what happens in the  real world when you elect that  candidate. And the matter of  fact is, is that when you have  advanced analytics to be able  to generate these insights such  as it is maximally convincing,  but does not all have to be  true. They have the capacity to  fool people and fact checkers  additionally. There are these  output massive increases, which  improves our ability to shatter  and fracture the ability for  people to come to a consensus  and just generally know things.  Because the fact that you have  AI that can generate these  things autonomous ly, you can  substantially reduce the  quality of political discussion  by flooding the internet with  cheap, you know, human adjacent  work that makes it difficult  for people that come to  consensus on common facts and  even just be able to do things  like make facts wholesale out  of thin air. The source of  these things is the political  motivation and you're building  a product from them by being  able to get the return of  investment once you into  election and once you get into  office. So really, we stop this  by making very, very expensive  for them to do so, or  impossible for them to do so on  a wide scale. You should care  about this outcome and this  argument because the moment  that we stop doing it, number  one, we stop the widespread  theft of people's taxes and  their ability to benefit from  society by making sure that  people can't just easily lie  about the kind of democracy  that you have. But number two  is that you also reduce a very,  very large barrier to be able  to participate in that  democracy, which means that  it's just simply easier for you  to get with your voice heard  and have important policy  passed down. But number three  is to be also reduced buyers to  entry for other political  parties because now to be able  to play in the same field, they  don't have to pay billions out  the **** in order to convince  consultancy firms to go to  them. Which means we also  improve the amount of political  candidates available as well as  increase the amount of  available political platforms  such as people have a better  array of choice in order for  them to avail of democracy.  That's the first argument.  Argument number two,  fractionalization. We have  learned a great deal about AI  and human emotion and that the  most reliable and strong  emotion AI can use to get votes  is anger, fear, and riling up  your old face. The problem is  that AI doesn't just know you  better. It can personalize it  specifically to you. when they  have the, when the ability to  catate to each individual  granularly is there, messages  are more likely to get to visit  rather than unify. When Trump  campaigned in twenty sixteen,  he used extensive analytics and  machine learning models to send  messages to more vulnerable  individuals to dramapate about  their particular issues because  they could do this. The Warrior  can personalize messages, the  easier it is for you to  authorize people safely without  fearing that this could get to  them potentially. Moreover,  it's impossible or difficult to  just target a few people on our  side, which means that you have  to cater more broadly to wider  audience, and hence, messages  that prioritize one group over  the other, lose voter basis,  which means you're more likely  to get unifying messages and  one is able to unite people.  What are the harms of allowing  us democracy that may  potentially be representative  but is increasingly polarized  and increasingly fractionized.  There are three harms. One, you  polarize people which means  that they are less likely to  come to consensus and agree on  common things which means that  regardless of who wins an  election, the win, the wins are  more marginal, unless people  are happy and represented for  any given election. Two, it  polarizes people in such a way  that they feel unsafe to vote.  They feel unsafe to go out on  the streets which means overall  their access to democracy is  impeded. And number three is  that there's a direct increase  in hate because of the  increasing inflow of facts that  makes you feel like violence is  acceptable against minorities.  This is a large, generalized,  and wide-scale harm that  happens as a direct result of  the ability for you to rile up  your voter base in order for  you to get guaranteed votes but  at the same time, use these  guaranteed votes, be able to  harm people in the end. Before  we move on to the third and  final argument about how we  envision democracy, I'll take a  PY from CO. Trump would  obviously have an incentive to  authorize people without  advanced analytics because it's  a way to mobilize his base.  Yeah, well, there are three  obviously responses to this.  Number one is is trivially  harder for them to do so  because it's harder for him to  know the exact issues each  individual voter resonates  with. But it's easier for him  to come up with a message of  unity that everyone can agree  with. Number two, obviously it  is substantially more costly.  He would lose way less voters  for example. Way more black  voters for example. If they  knew that he was authorizing  them specifically. And number  three right? Again it's just a  matter of capacity. Finally,  how do we envision democracy?  We consider it to be an arms  race between the ability for  people to suss out what  politicians are trying to do  and politicians to lie to  people. The problem is that you  massively improve the ability  on politicians on their side of  defense to sell you things that  won't actually help but you  believe will help you because  democracy is only valuable and  it's ability to aggregate  preference. The massing to the  point, what happens with  Advanced Analytics is their  ability to manufacture this  preference. This connects  people's fears, anxieties, and  so much more in a way, in a  scale, in a capacity that that,  that in many, with many things  that did not personally benefit  them. So for example, white  American workers do not benefit  from immigration ban s,  building a wall about salt  immigration crisis, but people  believe that they would, which  means the strength of AI and  the use of algorithms is  equivalent effectively to a gun  or a form of coercion, or  persistently lying to people,  with the ability to do that  because it has the capacity to  be recurring means you're  constantly exposed to an idea  that you are trying to accept  and because it is addicting  Because it makes you explore  more ideas. It uses the rabbit  hole to recommend you more and  more content that will  radicalize you even further.  These are not preferences  initially. They are driven and  convinced to believe these  things and what have not  believed these things.  Otherwise, we think democracy  becomes a sham. The moment you  allow it into its heart. For  these reasons, advanced  analytics has no place in a  modern democracy, affirm.  Thank you very much to the  Prime Minister. We are happy to  call leader of the opposition.  Thank you father. panels, that  Trump campaign that David  mentioned had four categories  for how they would advertise to  black voters in Florida. The  first one was, there's no hope,  don't bother. The second one  was dissuade them from voting  for Hillary. The third one was  you can potentially win these  people over and the fourth was  rally the troops. Crucially,  because this debate is not this  house would ban political  campaigns or even this house  would ban the use of basic  models. This is about advanced  analytics. We say, they only  get the persuasion. They only  get the no hope. We actually  try to win people over it. The  question of this debate is not  whether or not you want ads.  It's what ads you want in blue  campaigns. There's no crucial  things about the status quo  currently because we don't say  this necessarily favours the  elite because there are  different fractions within the  elite who want different  changes in society. People who  have different industries which  need to either expand or  contract. Meaning you either  want to uphold the status quo  or you want to change it.  Meaning different kinds of  biblical parties hugely get  huge funding. This is why in  America despite like the  Republicans being the party of  big business. The Democrats  actually will often get more  funding and fundraisers.  Crucially then because of this  elite opposition most people  have huge access funds that can  access this kind of technology.  I'm over it. Things like active  disinformation in advertising  is already probably going to be  banned very soon anyway because  the huge pushes against it in  those instances. But in other  countries unlike say America,  the shame of being caught out  lying in a political campaign  who's hugely politically  disastrous, creating a cooling  effect on doing it in the first  place. But also things like  blue like these platforms in it  themselves, libel laws, and  false advertising laws. This is  already not that phenomenon  across most of the world. What  is the magic in the space? We  say, who gets people's  preferences lies the most  within democracy. Why is this  the metric? Because A, the  state is, is in its existence,  is reliant on oppressing you  each and every day, making you  follow its laws and threatening  you with violence if you not do  so. Therefore, it actively  takes to your agency away and  the only way we can certainly  repay that is by giving you  agency control back over the  state retrospectively because  things like benefits, what will  actually will help you in life  can often be uncertain because  you don't know what people  want. But secondly, note that  preferences and what people say  they want actually directs them  towards benefit in life.  Because often times, say for if  you are someone who doesn't  like handouts, you may not vote  left-wing, even if it's the  best for you because you won't  find it fulfilling to be on  benefits. Crucially then, we  say preferences within  democracy is one of the most  important in terms of the  people living the good life on  the ground. One big point in  the speech, about uncovering  and activating preferences and  we get far better advertising  on our side. There are four  brains in this. The power of  this technology, the capacity  to find on hidden hidden  preferences. What changes minds  we say to persuasion, not  illusion, and why Pisces try to  expand their base as opposed to  shrink it. But even if a burden  where that's good then the  benefits. What is the power of  this technology? We say it has  the capacity to find things  about you. It's ways that you  may vote. Deep values you hold  that suggest you should vote  for a different party to who  you currently do. Which you  aren't even aware of as  yourself as an individual.  Because crucially people  socialisation is such that they  it's hard to find the self.  Deep introspection about what I  hold truly valuable is  something very very hard. And  these deep values and virtues  of what you then use to  transpose broader political  issues thing. What what I find  fulfilling? What do I think is  correct and moral within a  democracy. Crucially then  because this is very hard to  do. You have to defer to those  around you. This looks like say  guys not ever watching chick  flicks because they think oh  that's not what guys do. Even  though they're actually really  **** enjoy them they should  probably watch clueless.  Crucially then they so you  defer to those around you. The  power of this technology  overcomes that though. Because  A there's a huge huge body of  data which only advanced  analytics like the priority  process. Crucially then. You  can use trends. You can see the  way that other people have  changed to start the fact that  people realize their  preferences as they get older  and older is something that  true in the status quo but  we're able to activate that at  an earlier age and show people  their true preferences earlier  getting more represented  democracy. Cos you use these  huge trends, this huge data to  process how people are likely  to change. B, you're able to  analyze things like  temperament, things which have  correlations and causations to  the way that people vote or are  likely to vote in the future.  You find out what deep values  people have, whether or not  they think loyalty or these  kind of different basic virtues  is what they see is most  important. or whether they  truly do care about other  people or if they are self-cent  these kinds of things are what  are heuristics for political  values at the top level and  you're only able to find them  out, do deep, deep analysis of  an entire person's whole body  of data. Crucially then though,  because it is what it  determines that, when you have  that analysis, you're able to  find out what people are likely  to believe in the future, what  their true values are, what  their true preferences are,  even though they do not realize  themselves yet, because of  their socialization. Second  burden, what changes people's  minds? We say it is persuasion,  not illusion, and this  crucially just takes out  everything opening government  said, because the the simple  premise here If you are  inclined to believe something,  that is easier to convince you  than something you are not  inclined to believe. So for  example, if you are all say,  say globe heads and I told you  the earth is flat, you'll say  **** **** But if you think  maybe that these say elite,  lied to you in certain  instances, I can appeal to  certain key values to make you  believe, hey, maybe the  Democratic Party doesn't have  the interest of Latino voters  in mind. These kinds of things.  Why is this easier? Because A,  you don't have to change  people's minds, you just show  people what they already  believe in another themselves.  So you're not convincing  someone of anything. just  making them realizing things.  Which is obviously a lower like  kind of mental burden for  people to do. But B, it's  subtle. Because people don't  want to believe that they were  wrong, they don't want to be  caught off guard and think, oh,  I was wrong, I'm being having  my mind changed. So, you have  to do things in ways where you  you say to them, this is what  you already think, you appeal  to pre-existing values. And  see, the idea that you are able  to do those values, versus  going against common knowledge.  People have conceptions of what  is objectively true within the  status quo, what descriptions  of the world are, but  objective, subjective values,  these kinds of things, you're  able to persuade people with,  whereas active illusion  requires lying about the truth.  Lying about the objectivity of  the world which lets you things  like fact check is bringing in.  People just trusting you as a  political party. These kinds of  things. Before I move on to the  last burden, yeah, ANU. When  Trump sends his most sexist  messages to men and his most  racist to white people, how are  people not from those groups  meant to make educated  decisions when they never  actually see because on your  side, he sends those messages  to all men and all white  people. On our side, you  realize that is not the  inhidden preferences of some  people. That is not the  socialization of the group,  that is the socialization of  the group as a whole. That's  not how each individual's true  preferences are. So, we get a  less of that polarization. Less  of that stuff. That's the  crucial promise here. B, sorry,  C, why do Pisces try to expand  their base as a others. Because  A, if you win over more voters  and you get more bases, you  obviously just antifragile. If  you use one group, you have  others. So you're more likely  to survive in the long-term  political party. But B,  efficiency and competition.  Obviously, it's easier to,  rather than try to persuade  some swing voter and dissuade  another Democrat voter. If  you're the Republican Party can  flip a Democrat, that's two for  the price of one, essentially.  So it's obviously more  efficient than different  images. But even if that's not  true, why is things like  persuasion good in itself?  Because if nobody suits you,  you should know that, you  should be able to complain, you  can say this democracy is a  sham, we say you should not  vote for people who do not  represent your interest but  crucially then, even if you  don't explicitly complain, the  models will see your  frustration and then another  party also has access to this  technology is like the vacatory  preferences in the future. What  are the benefits of all this?  It means A, we get a more  accurate democracy which is  good in of itself because we're  weighing at the top of the  speech with the metric setting.  But B, you get proper catering  to voters. You realize that  certain voters do care about  certain social values or do  care about climate change and  you get more action because  crucially, you want to fulfill  what you promise to voters so  they don't think ah you didn't  actually do what you said, you  don't actually hold the values  that I think you do. I'm not  going to vote for you again. So  you have to fulfill your  captain but see, you get things  like formally disenfranchised  groups out voting because you  appeal to preferences which  they didn't realize they had.  You make them realize maybe I  should vote in this democracy.  We think this is a good in and  of itself but has an limitless  amount of benefits. Thank you.  Thank you very much to leader  of the opposition and it's time  for deputy prime minister to  continue the debate.  to Yeah, all good. Alright. One  moment.  I'm going to start my speech in  three, two, one. So I think the  winning clash on opening half  is to determine. Are they more  likely to manufacture  preference or aggregate  preference? Because if we prove  they are more likely to  manufacture preference, we win  the debate. So why are they  more likely to do this? Because  they say that oh you want to  cater to a wide base, you  want to really get to know your  constituents, etcetera. I want  to know that these are not  mutually exclusive kinds of  incentives. And therefore,  actually, Abset the knowledge  of individuals preferences and  being able to access them at a  whims notice. It is much more  likely they are going to  actively seek out and try to  know their preferences in order  to win an election but what  changes on their side of the  house and why is it that you  are much more likely to  manufacture preference?  Firstly, this allows you to  like win on the extremes. IE,  people like Trump did not want  to cater to such a wide base.  They wanted to divide people  and have such an extreme and  passionate base. And the reason  is a strategy that works is to  note, the nature of artificial  intelligence. In being able to  create passion rather than  necessarily catering to such a  broad demographic. For three  reasons. Number one, is it much  more emotional and personal?  And therefore first time you  feel like a politician is  finally going to listen to you  rather than just being a  product of algorithms that were  directly designed for you.  Secondly is that it's more  addicting. You're more likely  to enter this rabbit hole of  such a specific amount of  beliefs and information that  you cannot be convinced is  wrong. Because you've been in  these kinds of groups for years  and years. But more likely  thirdly they push you into echo  chambers like Facebook groups  Like Patriots for America.  There is a specifically notable  Trump group. That is much more  likely to make you believe and  hear that you are correct et  cetera. Why is this strategic  with respect extremes. Because  you cannot win in numbers on  extremes. But you can win on  passion. You can rely on a 51%.  Because even if you cater to a  broad demographic you cannot  assure that they're going to  show up in election time. And  notice, for an extreme base,  you also can't assure that they  will show up in an election  time. Unless you are able to  rile them up so significantly.  Like Trump was able to do, that  people were willing to not only  vote in elections, but also  storm the capital. And that is  uniquely, the capacity of  artificial intelligence. to  cater to you as an individual  human being and tell you to be  angry, to be mad, to be feisty.  That they cannot claim what  happen on our side as well. But  secondly, often times you  manufacture preference to  justify past failure. When you  want to convince people that  the material reality they live  in is actually different. You  are more likely to do that.  When the material reality is  bad and you are the reason for  it. So rather than convincing  people that we have to have a  new response to COVID. A lot of  Covid denialism came at the  fact when people were so sick  of all the lockdowns in an  inefficient government response  and therefore, the way in which  you do that is to try and hide  all the real facts and the  science from them. Or at least  do a significant enough degree  that they would be able to,  like, they would not be able or  rather they would be able to  actually doubt this science.  The reason that doesn't work on  our side of the house is  because it's much less  addicting. It's much less  personal. It's much more like  if you're everyone else because  everyone is hearing the same  message due to the lack of  depersonalization. It makes it  more likely to be prone to  rebuttals from the other side.  More likely that it's not going  to be as easy to convince  people of these different  things Next. Why is it then?  that this beats opening  opposition? Because they just  say that you're going to  aggregate preference. We think  that it's much more likely to  manufacture preference. First,  even if you think it is still  equal in likelihood, which I do  not think so after both David  and I's speechless. I think  when you have a political  system that is going to reward  the evil use of these kinds of  algorithms. Because they will  have the most emotional and  passionate individuals. They  are much more likely to come to  the top. Even when some people  use this in a good manner to  advocate preference you're far  more likely to lose out to the  people that try and manufacture  preference as a consequence.  But secondly, is that I want to  ask what a preference is.  Because what I'm saying here,  is that often times they  convince you that your material  reality is not real. And that  you should be okay with it and  accept it. Because of an  emotional preference that you  might have, that you're angry,  that you want to be able to  reflect that anger by building  a wall, by ensuring that  America will be great again,  etcetera. There are couple  reasons this is worse. Firstly,  is that even if you have a 51%  majority is going to have the  preferences extremely  aggregated, the likelihood is  because the division and the  nature of that division, that  only incredibly personal and  anger rivaling kinds of  artificial intelligence can  create. It is much more likely  that for the 49% that are  unrepresented, America is not  just one that doesn't fully  represent them. It is actively  bad for them. Because you have  created such an environment of  wanting to punish the group  that did not vote for the same  individuals. But secondly, is  that a lot of these people have  end goals in mind. IE, they  want to get out of they want  jobs and I can't blame people  who are simply victims of  systems and disinformation for  wanting better material  realities. However, when they  are convinced that's not the  case, it is much more likely  they pursue solutions where  there's an end in mind but the  means by achieving that end is  not going to be accurate. IE,  they're not going to get a like  they get a wall, rather than  actually ensuring that jobs  come back to America and  instead what has happened is  the jobs have left America more  and more so, because of the  wall, because of the  immigration response, etcetera.  And as consequence. It does not  reflect their material reality.  It is much more likely to  benefit them in nature. But  secondly, I think the POI from  CO is uncomparative. They just  say, ah, Trump's going to be  disregardless. Not only are you  less able to do this to such a  great extent. But the problem  is contradiction. IE, what  Trump did, was he told the rich  individuals in Wall Street that  people are going to steal your  money, that they're going to  try and get you out. You have  to vote for me, I will save  you. At the same time, he  catered to an incredibly poor  base of uneducated white  Americans. And so if you have  Swamp Wall Street. If they take  their money back, etcetera.  These kinds of contradictions  are easy to spot when they are  so widely like publicized. When  they cater to every single  group and it is done through  TV, through messages, etcetera.  But if there's subtle kinds of  articles, informations, ways to  cater to you. It's so difficult  to spot all these  contradictions. I'm only using  the most explicit one as an  example because it's easy to  understand. There are many that  are far more subtle, that are  more difficult to understand.  And I think those are  incredibly difficult to call  out, CO. There are costs to  using misinformation even if  you target it well. The media  still finds out eventually and  people reveal these preference  on social media. Presumably  this means that once you have  better access to people's real  preferences, you prefer to give  them positive reasons to vote  for you rather than cheap  misinformation. Exactly. So, I  first want to say, absent this,  it's a much better compactive  factual. When you don't know  people's preferences, you're  more likely to want to build a  representative government of  many groups of people that  represent different regions.  These absent people trusting  that you know their  preferences, you will defer to  people that actually do. or  you're more likely to create  campaigns that are wider scope  in nature and geographic in  nature. Rather than once we can  simply change the minds of  those people in those different  geographic locations. But I  want to note that the POI from  Max is that there are  significant costs to this.  Which means that the people  best able to ally those costs  and achieve like rather ah  afford the huge database that  are needed. The incredibly  expensive kinds of people you  have to hire for this. Are the  elite? Are the ruling parties?  Are the ones that are the  wealthiest? And what that means  is in the same way we can ban  things or enforce things like  public campaign financing and  not have private campaigns. I  think this is similar in  principle. Because allowing  people to have more choices is  better able aggregating  preference when people can  actually make different  decisions. Rather than having  the wealthiest campaign  spenders rise to the top  because of such strong and  powerful mechanism. All the  mechanism that Max says are  ones that do not work for the  poorest parties or rather for  the rich parties. But will work  definitely for the poorest  ones. I'm very proud to  propose.  Thank you very much to DPM. I'm  very happy to call the allowed  to close the debate on the  front half. It was give me one  second to gather my notes.  government are trying to have  four different debates at once.  Let's be clear on what the  actual comparative is, what the  motion calls for us to defend  and what the motion calls for  us to ban. Check your phones.  It is specifically about the  use of advanced analytics in  political campaigns. Note, you  have the incentive and capacity  for the elite to want to  maintain their power anyway, so  they will use whatever tools  are available to them outside  of this banning. What does this  mean? Firstly, is you still  have artificial intelligence  doing mass generational  political advertisements?  Because it's not using advanced  analytics to determine what  those advertising are. It's  just making as much as  possible. It's language writing  or AI. Secondly, you still get  targeted advertising but it's a  little bit more blunt. So, you  send your black voter, your  black voter advertisement  rather than something which is  specifically targeting their  specific needs and wants.  Notably, this oftentimes is  built up in rigid social biases  about what you think a  particular group wants or what  you think will be persuasive  towards them. This means the  Deputy Prime Minister example  of Wall Street voters versus  regular voters getting  different advertisements is  absolutely not comparative.  Thirdly, you still use simple  models analytics about what is  the most persuasive thing  towards people in general or a  particular group of people. The  difference is that it's not  personalized towards an  individual, right? The world is  massively dystopian on either  side of the house. So, let's  compare top half now. Opening  government, what are the claims  that they make? Firstly, they  say your output massively  increases. Nobody, this is  absolutely not comparative  because of the things I've just  said where AI can still do a  huge amount of increasing  output. Secondly, they say,  it's easier to fool fact  checkers because of the amount  of increase in advertising. No,  this is hung on the same  premise. massively increase the  degree to what you're doing  these things. You can still  have disseminated messages. You  can still have AI making 5000  different kinds of  advertisements and sending them  to the people that you think  you want to do. The difference  is the Advanced Analytics about  what makes up those  advertisements and who they're  sending them to you. Thirdly,  they say increases widespread  propaganda. No, again, this is  hung on the previous claim too.  Cos it's about this scale  rather than what's into in the  actual message itself.  Fourthly, they say, there's a  higher barrier to entry here  because it's expensive. Nobody  this isn't really comparative  either. Even with the ban, you  would still have the most  amount of capital for  convention advertising and  conventional target advertising  going towards those with the  most power within society. But  note the comparative here. Cos  we explained to you there's a  lower barrier to entry for  doing things like unlocking  previously on like previously  locked away voter basis. Which  is to say under the status quo  until like the 2016 election  the like black Democrats were  absolutely **** because the  Democratic Party knew they  could always rely on their  votes and the Republicans knew  that they could never access  them. Which means they never  got things like schools built  in their districts. Proper  healthcare, actual catering  towards their needs. Now that  there is the from the Democrats  that targeted advertising from  the Republican Party could  unlock this voter base or could  engage with them or could  persuade them. That's when they  actually had to start catering  towards their things. Passing  policies about defunding the  police. All those other things  that you've got on our side of  the house that you do not get  on their side of the house.  Let's weigh up these two groups  then right. The increase in  political parties from opening  government versus on our side  when we have increased  actualization and preferences.  Firstly, we propose to you that  you get at least some choice,  right? Because you get more  political parties on their  side, it doesn't actually  really matter if those parties  aren't catering towards people  Society. Secondly, get better,  better preference aggregation  for all people, right? So the  Republicans are are also  catering towards their existing  voter base on a better level  now. Notably like most  political campaigns are like  local campaigns, right? What  this actually looks like in the  real world panel is that you  realize that your voter base  actually doesn't care about  this hospital as much as they  care about building this road  in this area. That's what the  majority of this kind of policy  is going to look like. Thirdly,  also like a lot of big tech is  quite liberal because there are  young people in general who  tend towards being a little bit  more liberal. I mean, they're  not always going to fund the  institutionally powerful  actors. They're also going to  fund left-wing parish in  general other parties as well.  But also you have  philanthropists and elites who  are able to fund eh smaller  political parties getting into  these kinds of domains in the  first place. So on a comparison  on a part of their preferences  it seems that opening  government has very little.  What is the remaining claim  from opening government and how  we're going to win it? The  remaining claim and this is  where the caseship happens in  DPM when they realize that  their actual kind of actual  doesn't really work. Is the  idea that you're going to focus  on manufacturing preferences  versus a catering towards  preferences. So let's run  through that now and why it's  more likely that our side is  more plaus The first thing they  say is that aha, anger is  really useful in terms of as a  as a tool of rallying people  up. This is not comparative  because if you already know  that anger is the most  persuasive thing, that's what  you put in all your messaging.  The comparative is on our side  when we're able to determine  that for some people, anger is  not the best tool for riding  them up but things like hope  for a better future, persuasion  along the lines of like helping  out your neighbour and that  kind of thing. We can get that  uniquely on our side of the  house because their side has to  be more rigid and dogmatic  about what they're kind of  engaging with in these kinds of  political campaigns. then  misinformation is still  going to be used on either side  of the house. But we would  portray to you that on our side  of the house it's easier to do  things like catering to  preferences. Cos look at the  comparative here. On their side  of the house they must both  persuade you that the world is  not what you think it is. And  then also persuade you to vote  for you. On our side of the  house we just need to persuade  you to vote for you. We say  that when you can cater to  individual preferences. Maybe  things that they did not even  realise yet. That is far more  easy to do when you have this  kind of analytics. Because it  means that you can access what  opening governments say. The  idea that someone is truly  listening to you for the time.  Truly speaking on your behalf  et cetera. When you do not have  the ability to properly do that  for most people, that's when  you have to rely more on  misinformation because you do  not have the necessary tools  available for you to determine  that kind of thing. Before I  move on, opening government, is  there any reason why you think  you might be winning the top  half? Yeah, so the problem I  have here, is not only do you  never prove the capacity here,  which we prove is mutually  exclusive, like the whole point  is that, we don't give an  account of the Advanced  Analytics to know the best way  to avoid auditing, just because  you think sometimes politicians  can be good, doesn't mean you  should give them the tools to  lie No, but like, if your  acclaim there is that you need  to regulate it because it can't  be regulated. Most like human  life can't properly be  regulated. Like, that's not a  claim towards why it should be  banned. If your idea is that  like, oh, it's difficult to  audit this so you can't tell  what people are doing. Again,  that's not comparative. We're  using large scale, artificially  artificial intelligent,  generated, AI is to like, to  like create political  campaigns, like that element of  the case is not comparative  either. The comparative thing  in the context of this debate,  is the comparative between  whether you allow voters or  like campaigns to look at what  an individual voters  preferences are outside of  their social biases. We often  times people aren't even aware  of as Jack points out to you  and way on that basis or  whether you have to use blunt  instruments on their side of  the house like relying on a  particular like like black  photo or voter like a a female  voter to do particular things.  Inherently on their side of the  house, targeted advertising is  much worse because it only  cares to what you socially  believe that that group should  be engaging with rather than  what actually that group of  individuals might actually  want. So, how do we weigh up  this debate in terms of what we  bring you in opening  opposition? We to you a very  simple claim that gets very  weak responses from opening  government. The claim here is  that when you're able to tap  into individual's preferences,  they're deeply lying  preferences. That is the thing  that is most persuasive towards  them because they feel like  they're being truly listened  to. Opening government agreed  with this in their own  mechanization so they can't  walk back on it. In those  instances, that's what you do.  You unlock voter bases like who  you didn't previously have. Get  more people engaging the  political platform and you get  better policy overall in so far  as these promises translated to  policy in most instances. On  their side, the House, must  stand over blanket policies  which differ to the lowest  common denominator of things  like anger, of things like  misinformation, of things like  drumming up hate because they  have no other tools available  to them to determine what it is  that people want. It's a very  simple case from opening  opposition but it's very  persuasive because it pertains  to the most proximate  consideration of this debate  which is who gets more  preferences actualized in the  political realm. Therefore,  we've gone through this debate  and we beg you to oppose.  Thank you very much to deputy  leader of the opposition and  it's time for a member of the  government to open the closing  half of this debate. Here,  here.  Am I good at all?  Sonning my speech in three,  two, one. The way that we're  going to win this debate is  that we're going to talk  through the nuance of all the  other political actors and all  the others involved in the  space of utilizing this  technology that create truly  horrific outcomes for people  that opening half as completely  ignored. I'm going to address  three main things. Firstly, I'm  going to talk through privacy.  Secondly, I'm going to talk  about cost and political access  and lastly, I'm going to talk  about accountability regarding  legislation and things that are  open and missed. So, firstly,  on this notion of privacy, we  think that it's incredibly  important to note that the way  opening half set up this debate  is that corporations are going  to be taking a consultant and  these things are going to be  involved in in in in this  process and they're going to be  have to build massive data  files on how people vote,  right? Because we don't think  you can just predict what  someone's most core interest is  or what things they most  fundamentally care about or how  to make the most effective data  building platform with just  like a little bit of  information. You have to be  going in trying to collect as  much as you possibly can. Are  these people sympathetic to gay  people? Are they sympathetic to  immigrants? Are they  sympathetic to things like  climate change. That is not  just a little bit of  information that a large amount  of of a political file building  around them. Notably we think  the companies that are going to  be contracted the most by  governments or or political  parties or the ones that are  likely to be engaged with the  most are the ones that do this  the best and most  comprehensively. Which now it  means you have a race to the  top in terms of companies  trying to get the best  representation of you by  collecting more and more data.  We think that this means things  like partnerships with groups  like Facebook and Google  because they can offer ah ****  tons of money to those  companies in order to get  access to third dot either they  already sell because a  political political party's  going to pay them even more if  they can present this this a  really comprehensive file. What  is this data and what is it  likely to look like? Because  opening up doesn't really give  us any conception of this. We  think this looks like you know  the photos that you'll contain  in if you're like you know  travelling a lot where you're  those kind of things. Maybe you  can be classified as you know  slightly wealthier and they can  continue in that way. Looks at  the groups you are. Are you in  like a gay support group  because because one of your  friends is are you are you  liking post at Amnesty  International is putting out  and so are there for more  likely to vote for are causes  that are very pro refugee. It  also might look at things like  the things your schools go to  because if you send your kids  to a private school rather than  a public school, you might be a  little bit more concerned about  the quality of education and  those and those things to  regard with that. What that  ends up with is is data that is  is incredibly **** **** that  looks at things like the  percentage likelihood of how  gay you are and how sympathetic  you're going to be on like, you  know, mentions of of of of a  ruling that refers to like anti  homosexuality laws or things  like that. What tax bracket  you're in what what you look up  all all those kinds of things.  We think this is deeply  problematic for a couple of  reasons. Firstly and briefly  the principle privacy level  people just don't really  consent to this. We think it's  beyond the fantasy consent to  by using Facebook and Google  for people to control. I can  file like an omnitub on you.  But secondly we think that  there is an incredible  vulnerability of data leaks  right? Because you know at the  same rate that technology and  cyber security is increasing.  So too is things like hacking,  trying to get daughter into  these things. We think that  when like collapses like the  NHS's hospital infrastructure  have occurred in notorious  cyber attacks. We don't think  it's okay for an opposition  team to get up and just say we  can guard against it right? Any  data that you collect is  susceptible to you know ah  exposure to leaks that is why  bank accounts get leaked all  the time and put up on places  like the dark web. We think a  couple of things occur for this  at an individual level. We  think that there is an increase  susceptibility to individuals  for crime. The things that are  leaked for. If you're able to  build up a comprehensive viewer  like how people interact their  lives. Where when they go to  their house based on like  things like location data. What  what school their kids go to or  things like that. That allows  for more things like like even  things like kidnapping are are  to be involved in this. We also  know there's likely to be like  backlash from companies or  doxing and things like that.  Because if a company you're  working for has a you know  quite a strong stance against  like gay people in parts of the  world that isn't particularly  well regulated or where public  figures have their addresses  exposed or like you know  minorities are exposed in times  that hate speech is likely to  be amped up as our opening  explains it we think all those  things put a lot of individuals  at risk from other individuals  within this. But the third and  perhaps the most important  thing to note is the abuse by  government. Because notably  they can either seize or that  the government is literally a  political party that has access  to all this information. Which  means that all this data isn't  just relevant for the people  you think you can win over in  the debate. Win over in the  campaign. But it's the  demographics matter for all the  policy and decisions that you  make after but you still have  access to all of it over within  this. Which means you know if  you're looking at like say a US  context it means you can flag  to the author if someone has  looked up abortion access in  the past or ordered plan C that  puts you on a watchlist that if  you ever need to access it  again in the future what makes  it look like you are more  supportive of those kind of  things. We think this is  particularly bad for groups  such as minorities or any group  that the state wishes to put  protect at rest. Particularly  the more the weaker the  democracy you can get the more  ability for authoritarianism to  stick through. The more just  active discrimination their  state engages in. We think that  that is much more likely to be  **** Notably the increased  medicine but because of the  competition incentive parties  with intelligence in this  technology and that race to the  top by companies means this  data is so much more  comprehensive than it could  ever exist in any other thing.  That is incredibly **** Before  I go on, I'll take opening  oppositions. Yeah, this is  very, very basic data which  does not require advanced  analytics to use in which  governments, policy makers,  corporations, and parties all  already buy anyway. This isn't  private anymore. This is the  21st century. Yeah, so that  didn't listen at all to me, my  analysis as to why companies  have an incentive to rise to  the top because the better the  data file you and build, the  accuracy, you have an elections  which have noticeably had poll  polling in the past. The better  all those things you can do,  the more company political  parties are likely to pay for  it. I gave very clear reasons  as to why that is not true.  Second thing I wanted to talk  about is cost and political  access. We've already had a bit  in this debate. One of the  major flaws in campaigning at  present is money because  visibility is incredibly  essential where there's a lot  of apathy in political systems  particularly where you have  non-comulsory voting, right?  Well, we think that this isn't  just about increasing like the  campaigning gap that exists in  the status quo and and this is  how we get our opening  government is that the the cost  uniquely hurts grassroots  movements, right? Because  notably, they often require a  far more directive personal  connection as they waive  campaigning and trying to get  out and I get that visibility  that's so important to have  people actually turn up to the  polls for you. You require  volunteers. It's the only way  for for visibility where you  don't have massive sums of  money to throw all these kind  of things. Notably massive  election parties often are only  able to use like massive ads  that are able to get widespread  widespread reach. We this  competes with a lot of  grassroots movements that are  are often run by like groups  that are historically  disadvantaged in society or  come from like more progressive  backgrounds. This isn't just  saying progressive is good.  This is saying that having more  candidates of a different  variety is quite good in this  in this debate. And we think  they have a far less lack of  success and a far less lack of  buying by volunteers. Women are  being directly competed on on  their ability to interfere to  to connect with individuals.  Lastly what I'm going to talk  about is lobby groups. Where we  think there's more there's more  political actors than just  this. We hinder that lobby  groups of political interests  such as you know mining  companies that are incredibly  wealthy compared to like the  equivalent like ah grassroots  more progressive ah ah thing.  Also probably going to have  some kind of access to to these  titles. And when we think that  you know when a subset of  people who would view a  political party's  advertisements more critically  But not another thing. We think  that they don't react in the  same way and they and they  don't have the same election  laws imposed on them. They can  probably get away with even  more of of the polarisation  stuff. What's important to  notice this is that prior  incredibly important thing in  this debate that Ali Ali's  people in massive danger. That  is why we're so proud to put it  close.  Thank you very much to the  member of the government. I'm  very happy to call the member  of the opposition to open the  case for closing up.  Alright, if you have peel eyes,  please use exclusively offer  them in the chat.  We're going to be talking about  three primary things on closing  opposition. Firstly, a far  better explanation that are  opening about why there are  massive information gaps that  parties have under the status  quo. Secondly, why this  information gaps lead to an  overconcentration of attention  on swing states and how we  bridge that gap and finally,  and how we advantage smaller  parties. Before that, I have a  couple responses to closing  government. On data leaks, this  is likely to be highly  regulated. People are horrified  of data leaks. They don't want  corporations to get their data.  They're scared of things like  Cambridge in a meaning that A,  they're likely to push for  state regulation of these  systems but number two,  companies want to internally  regulate themselves to avoid  things like data leaks in order  to avoid defection from  political parties to purchase  the tech of other companies  instead. On their claim about,  now you're going to see people  who are googling abortion.  First of this is about an  aggregation of metadata. I  don't think it's necessarily  clear that you know the  individual Google searches  person is making. But secondly,  if states or companies wanted  to be oppressive, they still  have on their cloud regardless.  Meaning that if people are  going to be scared that  chilling effect our first major  extension is better reasons  that are opening a wider  information gaps under the  status quo. Oh, oh, oh, oh,  only really says like deep  emotions. It's kind of  assertive why parties cannot  access people's emotional  tendencies under the status  quo. The actual reason is that  parties have massive resource  constraints and investigating  all invaluable information  about voter demographics is  extremely expensive. Research  constraint is a very intuitive  premise. They only have so many  donations. They need to pay  their staff within the party.  They need to pay to run ads.  They need to pay to lobby. They  need to pay to organize things  like rallies. And otherwise  these kind of things very  expensive. Firstly,  door-to-door knocking over  extremely wide areas often  involves paying staff  especially when there's  inefficient volunteers and it's  often just not feasible if  you're not a regionally-based  party to actually do this in  all constituencies. Secondly,  there's just an infinite number  of policy areas to try and  learn and discover from other  people And thirdly, trying to  understand Yuan's preferences  is often less searching for the  party from the guaranteed  impacts of trying to mobilize  voters who you already have. I  mean, that given that they have  other expenses, their marginal  tipping point often resorts I'm  actually learning valuable  things about voters. Therefore,  if you think that O's impact  about like campaigning people  more accurately, it's  important, we better ultimately  mechanize that claim. Given  that there's resource  constraints, what OG says to  clash with this is basically,  it doesn't really matter  because now, parties are going  to do really bad things like  try and manufacture your  profits. It's then contradict  your information to voters  especially when it comes to  polarization. I have two  responses to this. Firstly,  sending contradictory messages  to voters is a bad political  strategy because in both groups  are going to be pissed when it  comes to broken promises.  Obviously if you have  contradictory promises, you are  unable to fulfill both. So if  you do that, you're going to  increase backlash from the  group that you actually lied  to. Secondly, though, other  comparative, I'm just not sure  that saying publicly hateful  things rather than polarizing  underground is actually a  better strategy. Figures with  close of personalities,  streaming racism, sexism, and  homophobia, normalizes those  things in political discourse  to a much larger extent. I  think then that we prove that  under both sides of the house,  parties will have an incentive  to manufacture preferences on  Gov's world and we're  structurally proved that why  the information that they've  access two manufacture  preferences is information that  is substantially worse. Our  second extension that is by  limited information leads to an  over concentration on swing  states. When parties do not  have enough info, the safest  campaign strategy becomes  doubling down on swing states  in highly contested areas. The  reason for this is a capacity  issue. On both sides of the  house, you have to get you have  the idealistic incentive to  campaign in a higher number of  areas because digging into  perceived state seeds of the  other side is more odd and  courageous to expand the tent  of your party into the long  term. However, now uniquely how  the financial capacity to learn  things about voters that are  not in swing states. You just  have to swallow the fixed cost  of purchasing a machine to  rapidly have access to  information about a very very  wide group of voters. So under  our side you look into the  demographics of a far more  expansive route for the same  fixed cost. I think that  therefore parties are going to  be more likely to crack solely  into the safeties of the other  side and to actually  investigate these voters  especially because under the  status quo they're often wrong  about how safe seas actually  are for other parties. They're  always using lagging data based  on past information a certain  point in time because you have  no empirical way to actually  update that kind of data. So,  perhaps an area could be a  swing state but you're assuming  that it's a that it's a safe  seat for the other party and if  you're basically just letting  them have that seat. We also  believe that it's more possible  under our side of the house to  actually crack safe seats to a  larger extent. We have access  to more Intel about border  demographics and other  constituencies. I think that  it's good for parties to try  and crack safe seats more for a  few reasons. The first one  under the status quo, swing  stage is arbitrarily get more  resources because work campaign  promises go there and you try  and entice them more in the  campaigning promises. often a  non-utilitarian waste. IE  protectionist tariffs and  manufacturing suites to the  state areas even if this harms  other voting demographics that  you could ultimately cater to.  It is giving them a lot of  white elephant projects.  They're often just a waste of  time and a waste of resources.  But secondly, there's just a  better way to facilitate  people's right to vote and  right to access information.  Cuz you get more campaigning in  areas where people are  previously neglected. Not  giving information to at all. I  think in top half it's pretty  unclear whether on oh oh you  get more accurate info in on on  OG and manufacture preferences.  Logically prior to actually  paying to a high group of  voters in the first place.  Before I talk about smaller  parties, we'll take OG. For  example, racist messages have  more emotional power with more  information and are less likely  to be corrected and lose you  popularity. Yes, Trump still  does this on our side, but she  also no, no, no, no, racist  messages don't have more power  with more information. I don't  get this. You know that people  are racist. You're just going  to resort to the same  stereotypes. The Mexican  immigrants are criminals. We  need to build a wall to keep  them out. I'm not sure why it  takes a rocket scientist. A  perfectly accurate information  to just say racist things. How  do we advanced smaller parties?  Both under both sides of the  house parties obviously want  this. The problem is that it's  really expensive for all the  reasons that I gave to  adequately gather info under  the status quo. We have to hire  a lot of people. You have to  hire fancy analysts. Not that  like you can still hire  analysts on both sides. Those  analysts just don't have is it  the same kind of advanced data  schemes and advantages larger  parties more because you have  more volunteers who engage in  things like door knocking. So  smaller regionally based  parties were pretty screwed.  Why is this tech probably going  to be afforded by smaller  parties? First you have a fixed  cost versus to a long run  expansive cost. Yes like it  might be like quite expensive  at first. You can just like  convince other party. You know,  we have to have this one-time  expense. Then, you get good  tech into the long term versus  the continual cost every single  campaign of having to train  higher, higher number of  people, which is quite  infeasible. Secondly, though,  the tax is just unlikely to be  that expensive. It's only only  one company has this pack, it's  patented and it's really fancy.  A lot of analytics data is used  by myriad of corporations under  the status quo. When it comes  to things like actuaries, using  this in banks, and all of that  stuff. It's just like AI  evaluation mechanisms to scan  large groups of data that a  bunch of images are tapping  into. There is corporate  competition, a a variety of  companies selling which exerts  standard pressure on prices.  So, big companies, big party  story always have more info on  their side. Of course, we level  the playing field by decreasing  the barriers to entry for small  parties to use tech and even if  this tech is largely worse,  that like the the type that big  parties have, given that  underlying algorithms will just  help with information  gathering. It's likely to be  more similar. Helping smaller  parties is hugely hugely  important because large parties  are often complacent and  adequately cater to  preferences. Definitely think  that there are safe groups of  voters often, old institutions  within the party. So often just  two big ten actually care  toward one's preferences.  Smaller parties help bridge  this gap of directly catering  to things that people want.  Like more environmental or  pro-feminist policies. And  challenge the establishment by  posing a meaningful threat  through electoral power to  force bigger parties to adopt  their base to become more  representative. Extremely proud  to stand in CO.  Thank you very much for that  speech and very happy to call  the government with to continue  the debate on the government  side.  They can never hear me  Yep. Brilliant. Give me one  sec.  Dealing briefly with the CEO's  extension about swing seats  then talking about access  people's reaction to this  information and finally why we  win on privacy alone. Firstly  dealing with CEO's extension on  swing seats. I think the first  thing to note is that the idea  that parties only focus on  seats they think they can win  is in like that haven't swung  in the past is empirically  untrue in the status quo. I  think parties are continued  going to look at ways that they  think but potentially seats  might swing now that they  haven't in the past. So for  example states like Ohio  swinging like the twenty  sixteen election when they  haven't previously for a period  of really long time. I think  that's because parties still  are likely to look different  ways to get a comparative  advantage. But the second thing  is to say that in this ah  status quo you're still likely  to try and swing these ah like  focus on everyone anyway  because you have a national  coherent message that people  look to whereas that doesn't  exist under government side to  opposition side to nearly the  same degree. Finally I think  you also have parties that have  the likely same belief that  swing seats just have people  who are easier to convince in  the first place. So for example  Republicans are trying to go  likely to look at Democrats in  seats that are traditionally  swing seats as opposed to  Californian Democrats because  they think they ultimately  might receptive to the  Republican ideal. But notably  what I'm going to prove to you  within the rest of this speech  is this disproportionately  benefits certain groups of  people and not others. So, even  if you think that swing sits  are going to be targeted less  and countries are going to be  targeted as a whole, then, it's  obviously a really bad thing if  it only disproportionately  promotes populism for example.  Okay, secondly, on access. What  Harry tells you in his speech  at this uniquely locks out  grassroots movement and  Sierra's second part of their  extension is kind of responsive  to this. The first is that the  thing they kind of say is it's  really expensive to kind of  campaign in a wide direction in  the status quo but when you  have competition for this  information, it's likely to be  cheap. The first thing to note  is that it's not inherently  really expensive to campaign in  the status quo. A lot of  grassroots movements in  particular, left-wing  grassroots movements rely on  large volunteer bases in order  to make their things happen.  So, it's not nearly difficult  to agree that that government  wants to tell you but the  second thing to note here is  this is unlikely to be cheap  because of competition. This is  incredibly valuable corporate  product. These companies are  selling. You could have a  contract with the Republican  Party for millions of dollars  essentially because that how  valuable it is to them, right?  Is it big parties that set the  price in this instance, not the  small parties, and obviously,  they have an incentive to lock  the small parties out. So,  they're likely to make  contracts that for example with  companies that means they  cannot sell this data to  smaller groups and because it's  such a big undertaking, it's  likely to be incredibly  expensive for these companies  in the first place to provide  that data. So, they're unlikely  to do it for cheap. We get over  opening opposition here, right?  Because we explain why the  amount the groups of people you  look at is disproportionate.  They say it's expensive but we  tell you that people with the  most money in politics are  often on the right wing because  they have the corporate  interest to keep things like  mining going and to keep  policies that promote corporate  interests up so it is  disproportionately for example  right-wing lobbyist groups or  right-wing parties that have  access to this data. Obviously,  big left-wing parties will have  access to this data as well but  it is smaller left-wing parties  and left-wing grassroots  movements that don't get this  data in the future and are  significantly less electorally  incentive successful because  they have to continue to do  things that aren't not targeted  while everyone else has that  targeted information. That is  why access is so much worse and  we win the debate on that alone  because obviously it means you  have less representative  democracy here. Secondly, on  reactions to this and dealing  with stuff that both opening  and closing opposition tell us  about media scrutiny. I think  what we have to note here is  that a lot of media scrutiny  scrutiny on like incorrect  facts and statements right now  that parties have said is led  by people being angry, right?  So, conservative voters don't  call out conservative parties  for having incorrect facts  because it ultimately benefits  them. They're called out when  these ads are on national TV  and voters that disagree with  them bring those to their  national electoral but no  parties are now able to bypass  that and make sure that  misinformation only goes to  people who won't tolerate it,  right? I think this is  important because your enemies  seem a whole lot less bad and  people who are against your  interest, when the only things  they tell you make them seem  kind of good. So, for example,  I'm probably less likely to  think poorly of the  Conservative Party in Australia  even though they do really ****  **** **** If they only give me  ads about how could they've  been on the environment in the  past three years and that means  I'm significantly less likely  to try and fact check them for  certain claims or I'm even less  likely to see that like that  you see those claims in the  first place. This response to  the stuff that opening  opposition told you about  misinformation existing on both  sides. Obviously it does is  much more visible under their  side of the house than under  the side of the and outside the  house and under the side of the  house where parties are able to  find it. Now dealing with  opening opposition stuff about  looking at people's  preferences. I think they kind  of implicitly note to you  throughout their speeches.  These values the values are the  kind of things that people find  convincing. Not facts which is  really important. Because Trump  tried really hard to win voters  still and he tries really hard  to win the white man. Whereas  instead status quo. he kind of  moderates his racism, right?  Because it obviously isn't  palatable to everyone. What he  does now is incredibly racist  towards the people that they  have found enjoy racism and to  people who do not, they, you  know, try and get the  empathetic white man by making  him be more empathetic to  American farmers. Thereby mean  that he doesn't support  policies on immigration, right?  That is incredibly important  because when you talk about  looking at preferences, you  have to know bypassing people's  sorry values. They are  bypassing people's rationality  and helping people actually  vote for things they disagree  with. No, that's  disproportionately helpful that  you're right wing because  people who are already racist  are unlikely to be convinced by  police to be more empathetic  but people who are empathetic  can be convinced by police that  suggest they should be  empathetic towards different  people. We also win on this  thing about reaction alone  because Harry tells you that  people think of this  information far less critically  when they're not from political  parties. Things like lobbying  groups exist and people are  less likely to evaluate the  information that they get from  those parties critically which  means this misinformation is  likely to be even more powerful  when it's particularly  targeted. I'm going to go onto  privacy in a sec but prefer to  from opening? Delta privacy is  low and small parties are  likely economically locked out  either way but both of these  things are only important  because they let people control  their own lives which we get  better by unlocking  disenfranchised voters and  better actualising preferences.  One, you don't like allow  disenfranchised voters to  access their preferences any  better when you're trying to  exploit their emotions. Two,  smaller parties are not like  locked out in the status quo  because they can do things that  are affected political  campaigning for free. They  cannot do that when the bigger  parties have this comparative  advantage on cost. Okay, on  privacy, opening opposition  characterizes this debate as  these people knowing about Your  true values. How the **** do  they determine this without  trolling through everything you  have done on the internet for  an incredibly long period of  time. Otherwise, like that  that's kind of the thing that  opening opposition relied on  here. So, if you believe that,  you have to believe this is  incredibly invasive. Political  and parties have an incentive  to find the most information  possible because that is going  to be their comparative  advantage to winning these  elections. Note, they don't  even have to make a partnership  with a tech company, right?  They control your publicly  available information on your  Facebook and your Instagram.  They have a whole little pile  of data that AI analyzers to  find out who you truly but we  also tell you they're likely to  lobby Google and Facebook. It  is so much money that is  incredibly likely that these  tech companies can like these  tech companies do sell it to  them and probably do so in  underground way to avoid  criticism. But no, this has  data has to be held for a  period of time and it is  unlikely to be anonymous  because they are directly tying  his daughter about you to  trying to campaign to you. What  does this mean? The first is we  are much more vulnerable to  Denalis, right? This is the  literal most valuable data in  the world. Obviously for  international groups that want  to interfere with domestic  politics. But also just for  corporations wanting to  advertise. So the opposition  there'll be regulation. But  obviously government  information was already  incredibly valuable and people  get it hacked anyway. But the  second thing is to say that if  these things do get hacked  these groups are just likely to  hide it in the first place. So  we don't even know that it  happens. But the second thing  here is to know that this  doesn't even rely on hacking.  Governments in many countries  are often political parties. In  countries that don't have  strong anti-corruption laws.  This gives them access to data  that they never had before. In  a way to control your  preferences that uniquely  benefits them and uniquely  benefits enforcement or rules.  This is debate winning in of  its own. So proud to propose.  Thank you very much. The  closing government whip and to  summarize the bid as a whole, I  would like to invite the  opposition with.  Cadboard here  Gonna talk about four things.  First, why OG is wrong about  the new marginal incentives for  contradictions and racism? Two,  why the CG extension is very  low impact? Third, extraneous  responses, and fourth,  extensive weighing against.  First, why is OG wrong? I think  they make two very problematic  assumptions. Number one, that  there are very few costs to  parties using contradictions  and aggressively racist  messaging. Or that those costs  can be overcome using  personalized messaging. I'll  deal with their first argument.  You're better at targeting  people's internal emotions and  therefore, as a result, you're  able to shift their preferences  in some meaningful way. First  of all, I think the front half  just ultimately deadlocks from  the question of whether people  have these hidden magical  preferences that OO says or  whether you can invent new  preferences for them as OG  sets. I think they're awfully  unspecific about how this  occurs. OO counter asserts that  they are like in their psyche  somewhere deep in there. I  think the better way to deal  with this clash is the question  is, do you use this for anger?  Under OG's own  characterization, parties  already know that anger is the  most powerful and primal  emotion. called DPI. This means  that you're going to get  populist like Trump in either  world being electorally  successful by using the stuff,  especially in the status quo.  The difference is, now the  establishment, or at the very  least, small parties who aren't  racist, and literally anyone  else, other than angry,  right-wing populists, are  Lastly better at tuning into  people's emotions. So, in a  world where you're like, in one  constructive ways, other parts  are able to tap into people's  preferences. The important  implication here is that OO  just says, more disenfranchised  voters vote and people feel  more politically engaged. Total  assertion. Our respond to  valuable electoral strategy for  some parties to get  specifically advantaged by a  randomness like having access  to people's emotions in better  ways. Now, all parties do. So,  there's better electoral  competition. The next thing  they say You're better at  microtargeting racism and using  contradictory messages and  their framing is like in the  status quo. Trump has to  broadcast being racist to  everyone and he doesn't like  this. He wants to do hidden  racism. I have a couple  responses. Number one, I think  OO probably sufficiently  marginalizes his claim already.  Lots of people have internal  races they don't know about and  it's not going to be  necessarily visible to people  on social media. So, I think in  a lot of cases, there is a  preference in general for  populist, racist politicians  who want this stuff to be  public because more people up  on it. Look what Trump did in  Florida for example with  weaponizing Latinos against new  immigrants and black Americans.  Second of all, there are costs  to doing these things. Even if  you microtarget really well,  all it takes is one person  leaking this to the media or  people starting to talk about  it on social media and other  parties noticing it and  reposting their ads. Like,  look, the democratic campaign  literally did this to Trump.  They found the racist stuff he  was spreading to different  groups and they pointed out the  contradictions. So, the point  is that this is costly. Even if  it becomes marginally easier to  do it. This means it won't be  used in a lot of cases is not  very impactful. I think the  last thing is Naomi already  points out. If you contradict  in your first campaign and then  you get elected, you have to  break that promise at some  point and we know for a bunch  of like very obvious  illustrations that voters very,  very heavily dislike  politicians breaching promises  because it's a very clear thing  that voters see tangibly. So,  this is not going to happen.  They say that elite parties are  able to successfully use this  stuff more. Number one, this is  just an outright contradiction  from OG. They say the angry  populists use this more because  anger. Now, they say elite  parties use this stuff more. If  anything just counteract. The  elite parties can get to people  know people's emotions more so  too can the populace. Second of  all, Miami's extension  implicitly clashes. She points  out why the resource constraint  to scaling a campaign and  getting volunteers in all kinds  of districts is one that has  increasing marginal cost at  every point. But technology is  comparatively a fixed cost. Yes  it takes a lot of money to get.  Yes it takes a lot of  resources. But once you have  it, you have it and the  maintenance costs over time are  far lower. Then every campaign  having to rescale. So, once you  have this, it scale in similar  ways for all parties versus  volunteers scaling with general  like popularity, established  patronage networks, etcetera.  Uh last of all, OG has some  unique content on bots which  they dropped in DPM when they  realized it didn't work but I  do just want to point out the  bots are fully non-comparative.  A, the motion is explicitly  about the use in campaigns, not  about the use by Russian AI  bots which are going to exist  in either world. And number  two, the types of technology  you need for these bots do not  require advanced analytics as  OO content. So, here's the  issue with OO. OO does a lot of  great work at this point in the  debate to OG does not debate on  the right margin. OG is not  expressly engaging with all the  material on Advanced Analytics  uniquely because there are  still blunt instruments in the  status quo. The issue is oh oh  just marginalizes their own  case to a massive extent here  too. Because they don't prove  beyond saying you have access  to people's emotions. Why this  should matter? If the blunt  messages can work reasonably  well. In fact in their own ref  they say people are already  going to use anger. So  presumably OO doesn't actually  get to prove that people have  some meaningful access to  emotions that's unique. I'll  get more on a wall later. First  I just want to wipe out CG  Number one, data leaks.  Symmetrical. If anything, they  get less bad when there's more  high stakes info and when there  are more actors who are  dedicated to not having this  info leaks, you spend more  money on data security and  there's more competition in  this market as parties begin to  use it. Uh I also think there  are large marginal incentives  to hack Facebook for lots of  money regardless to ransom  political parties etcetera.  Which means this is broadly not  comparative. They add that  lobbyists can use this stuff  too for some reason. I mean,  this seems like a point for us.  This seems like a reason why if  you ban political parties using  this stuff during campaigns but  you the lobbyists still use it  outside of campaign then they  go to parties and they're like  look at this polling we got  about why these voters  specifically want this. So it  seems like a reason to support  us. If you ban it for the  comparatively good guys like  political parties that you  don't for corporations and  lobbyists, then, it seems to  flip. Last, they say, there are  lots of incentives to target a  lot of areas in politics. This  only mitigatory, right? This  says, sometimes, the swing  keeps change but the point is  that in general, specific  regions are advantaged over  time even if it changes  slightly on the margins. OG.  The reason it is more strategic  to cater to a broad base  without AA rather than dividing  them is because you can't  assure you rile up emotions  effectively and it is too risky  to be blunt. Of all, it just  ignores all the preemption  we've given and it kind of  assumes the right about anger  comparative. So, if it's that  you're catering to a broad base  because you have uncertainty, I  mean, parties have ideologies,  right? They're limited and  constrained in terms of terms  of who they can broadly  persuade. The point is that  certain parties are going to  have random comparative  advantages of accessing  people's emotions which means  they're electorally successful  compared to all parties having  similar resources that relating  to people, meaning can  positively explain using the  same relatable language what  their policies are. This flips  this info from opening  government which is the most  important thing. Right now you  use this information because it  gets the anger. OG agrees that  anger is the most powerful  thing. In our world, you're  better accessing people's  preferences and you have more  resources. This means that you  are less likely to need to  resort to which has costs of  getting called out. And you can  actually explain why your  positive reasons work. Why over  OO? OO is never clear on how  whether parties use a tech to  provide your info or try to  manufacture different  preferences. We break that  deadlock. Number two, we point  out why small parties can use  this. Therefore, beating OG in  terms of their elitism stuff  and actually explaining why  this is useful for politics in  terms of more areas getting  political resources and more  parties getting political  resources compared to the  randomness and the status quo.  And finally, in terms of the O  Material and disenfranchised  voters, I don't know why OG  isn't right that they can give  people not to vote. So, O  doesn't prove this claim. We  explicitly weigh over this by  explaining the campaign  incentives whereas OO is  mitigatory to the point where  it harms their own case. For  all those reasons, Brad to take  the debate. Thank you very much  to the opposition web and to  all of the speakers for this  amazing quarter final. Uh just  after we'll go from the stream,  one information to you. I guess  you will be very happy to  receive feedback from this  debate after the announcement  who is going to the semi-final.  So we can make the arrangement  that will make group chats and  the Zoom link and we'll just  meet with the panel and the  speakers here. Cuz we are all  busy so it's for our we are  best shots to catch us  altogether and 