Video Link: https://youtu.be/P28WviPguF8

Video Motion: This House Opposes the popularization of therapy speak

Video Title: Belgrade WUDC 2022 Round 7

Transcript:
 pronunciate them. Alright.  Thank you so much. Uh we're now  going to team introductions.  OG Ah, sorry. Ah, hi, sorry,  I'm going first, no preference.  Yo, my name is Ted. I'm  speaking second. I preferred  the he series pronounce please.  Alright, thank you so much.  Opening government, opening up.  Marta will be speaking first,  Joseph will be speaking second.  Great, thank you so much.  Closing dove. Speaking first is  Matt, here are they. Speaking  second is Ahmed, no preference.  Alright, and finally, closing  opposition. Ah, hi, Roman  speaking first, Alex speaking  second. We have no preference,  thank you. Alright, thank you  so much everyone, for the  introductions. We'll now move  into a couple of announcements  before we start the round.  Alright, the first announcement  is with regards to time, so I'm  a bit lazy, I won't be putting  time stamps in the chat, so  please keep your own time, I'll  have a timer with me, so if you  go above 7 minutes and 15, I'll  just use my hand if speakers  want to ask POIs just keep a  timer with you too so that you  know when to ask POIs, you  don't ask POIs during protected  time. Um so that's really it on  about the timing thing. The  second is with regards to POIs.  Um please take them. We like  them as judges. We enjoy them.  And also they encourage for  engagement. The second thing  here is that, please state your  preference before your speech.  Do you want it in the chat? Do  you want it verbally? Speakers,  please respect the preference  given by webinar is on the  floor, they say the chart, keep  it in the chart, if they do  agree to best and well and  good. On the verbal PI bit, if  this as a lower verbal budget  them, space out your POIs like  30, 40 seconds between each  other, so that you're not  constantly interrupting this  car, and constantly  interrupting the judges, from  hearing what the speaker is  saying. So space out your POIs  and no budgeting, and then  when, the speaker on the floor  allows you to ask a POI, this  is to those who are receiving  POIs, let the speaker ask their  POI, don't come off like 10  seconds, 15 seconds to ask  their POIs, so that we can also  PUI and speakers don't abuse  that power. Don't load like six  questions in one sentence. Just  ask one short concise POI in a  way that you know the rules  allow you to. Other than that I  do think that we are good to  go. So I'll just check with Og  if the streaming is ready and  if we are ready to go.  Alright, just a sec.  I think we are good to go. Um  Prime Minister, the flow is  yours here here. Hi, I'm yes, I  can hear you. Okay, awesome. Uh  happy to be here and also happy  to make POIs. So, if you have a  point, don't type it in the  chat. Um because I won't read  the chat. So, I won't  information. So, just unmute  and then be like point and then  I'll take you. So, I'll take at  least one for more from opening  opposition hopefully. Okay.  starting my speech in 5, four,  three, two, one, go. And  everything is a mental illness,  nothing is. We think this is  delegitimises the way people  perceive illnesses and harms  the most vulnerable. Two things  in my speech. First of all, why  is it likely to harm people in  a way that affect me? Why does  this delegitimize people who do  have illnesses? Why does this  make poor people not why does  this make people clog up the  system and why is it likely to  destroy everyday relation  impacts. Second, societal level  impacts. The entire academic  field of psychology takes a  huge hit in legitimacy and  reduces the amount of funding  and trust that people have in  it in the first place. First,  note by reasons. First we've go  through these issues and know  that they have an actual  illness are often in a  spectrum. Some people have  extremely serious problems,  some people have weaker levels  of frustration and struggle in  their life. And often, when  you're just upset quite a bit,  it's not really an illness. For  example, you don't get  depression every time a family  member dies. But often can we  feel make you upset for many  months at a time. At that  point, there are things that  are emotions that are not  actually illnesses in the first  place. What happens to people  with mental illnesses when  people who are safe, frustrated  about the cleanliness of their  room, say that they have OCD.  Three things, for people have  less empathy for them and this  is the reason why. People think  that they have a explanation  and understanding of what this  mental illness feels like. They  think that they know what  depression feels like because  they themselves have felt some  parts of depression because  they just said I am depressed.  I was sad at a certain time.  They don't recognize the  difference between that and  depression. They think that  their boyfriend was kind of an  absport to them is a toxic  relationship and they don't  think that the other person has  anything that's significantly  higher than them. Hence they  are less likely to accept the  fact that this person is  suffered much more you can  imagine and hence have much  less empathy in bandwidth to  deal with their issues. This  means let's discussions, let's  care for this person, let's  concern about the issues in the  first place. But second, they  think they understand it  already. They think they know  how to solve it. This is your  parents thinking that because  you are feeling sad and you  think you have depression,  actually it was when they were  young and they were also upset  and saw a mental illness. It's  just you not being hardworking  enough and you have a solution.  The difference is at the point  you start using these terms in  your everyday life. People who  are currently liberalizing  started because they are  feeling similar experiences,  they also understand this. The  second reason is often that  this spreads into everyday  vernacular and starts looking  normal to people. Which reduces  the urgency to attach to these  terms in the first place. Often  this means that you think that  the urgency of someone having  depression, the urgency of  something being toxic is not as  high. Because you seen it, you  so often. It's diffuse so  called vocabulary. It becomes  very difficult to determine who  actually is. The same thing  happens now and we don't have a  signaling mechanism finding the  people who are more silly. But  third, before that ah closing  opposition quickly. So, there  is a premise that you don't  analyze. Why does people saying  this will lead to negative  outcomes to people who have  actual problems in their head  because presumably they can opt  out, not care, and they can  just continue with their lives.  Of course, they can't opt out.  I just told you it's an  everyday life. The people  around them are saying it's  your family doesn't take you  seriously and or often because  they think, oh, this is what  OCD is for like four to 5  years. I've seen many people  say they are OCD. Now, my son  is saying it as well. Well,  it's just a normal thing. It's  not a real and people who  already have it feel constantly  frustrated because here's the  **** thing I told you, right?  Other people don't give a ****  about them anymore because they  think that they are similar to  them. At the point where you  think you would experience what  they have, it's difficult to  have the emotional bandwidth to  listen to them and hear them  out and the issues that they  have. That means you are less  likely to have special  privileges to be person who  genuinely needs it because they  cannot focus. Because ADHD  means they cannot actually  write notes properly and you  just think that means you not  being able to listen to like  your homework, podcast or  something because you are  watching that The third reason  is this lowers the barrier of  entry for expertise and reduces  the need for experts. You don't  trust psychologists to the  point where you think you have  an understanding in the first  place. The difference is on our  side. Often because these are  seen as highly medical terms.  People don't say ah I have a  fever. The second feeling  slightly upset. Oh no, I have  hypothermia. When they hear  those words, they think I need  an expert to understand these  words. I need an expert to  solve these problems. At the  point where this becomes  everyday pardons, you think  that you have the barrier to  entering to solve these issues  and understand them. But fourth  of all, increases the stigma to  even speak out about this. And  this is where I go into my  analysis of what this affects  in terms of people going into  the system. There is no answer.  Some people are often poor and  cannot afford to go to the  system and have stigma against  it. Some people are often  richer. They have the luxury to  afford to go to the system.  Hardly student groups attack.  Like respondents. People who  cannot afford this often will  respond by justifying the fact  that they do not have an  illness because of this stigma  uniquely because there is no  urgency anymore. The alarm  bells don't ring. This is  important. This is unique for  three first because they do not  have the money so they need to  justify the fact they are  taking the right decision which  they often know that might not  be the best one. So, I can't  afford it. I might as well  justify in one way or the  other. Second, it's because the  stigma that they faced in the  past where someone who has a  mental illness is weaker and  not strong. But third is  because of their framework and  mindset. So, the social  narratives they have actually  framed the way they view the  world. So, new information they  get just tends to make them  believe that actually I don't  really have a mental illness.  Why do we break this on our  side for poorer people? It's  because it looks like a terrify  death knel. It looks like  something you have to solve  right now. It is something that  is a genuine threat of your  actual life. This is why often  poor people who think that say  something like a fever or a  cold which is normal. Is  something that they can avoid  and not go to the doctor for.  But if someone says you have a  risk of hypothermia, it kicks  in and they say, okay, this is  the point where I go to a  doctor, this is the point where  I seek medication. We take away  that site from opposition when  everyone thinks the same normal  thing. People are saying and  this delegitimizes the urgency  before that quickly opening  opposition. In the decades  before this popular people  stigmatize mental health as  well. Where is no because if  you stigmatize mental health  then this can't exist in the  first place. This narrative  exists on both sides. When a  mental health starts becoming  an if like the thing that  people care about. Notably you  can only talk about things like  toxic and OCD and depression  when you know that they exist  and you only know that they  exist the point where people  are talking about it in a  serious way anyway. Also there  is many other incentives to  this increase. For example like  just people recognizing that it  actually makes their lives  worse and just the illness is  becoming more popular. The  field in general. You can't  just take that out of history.  Okay, finally, why does this  destroy every relationships and  harm the actual legitimacy of  academic? Okay, on  relationships, it harms  relationships because it  delegitimizes the fear of  things like toxic  relationships. Firstly, there's  the people who are in them  start to doubt themselves. They  think, am I just another person  who is often likely to like  like randomly call someone  toxic and cut them off and the  person that I am dating is  likely to say things like, oh,  don't call me toxic. I'm  terrified. This and that means  that often you start to think  of yourself as the villain when  you see someone as evil person  because it's such a large  acquisition. It's much more  easy to say things like I am  angry at you or frustrated with  you. Which means you are more  likely to over correct. But  secondly people don't take you  seriously when you speak out  because it looks like every  other person calling each other  toxic. At which point it's hard  to once again signal the  urgency of relationships that  are toxic. Which means the  people who are in diverse  relationships are likely to  stay there with noone talking  to them. Finally the impacts of  this on the academic field are  that you do not respect  psychologists anymore. Because  they do things like make public  diagnoses of individuals which  you think is just irrelevant  and often push things like  system that over medicalized  problems for everyday issues.  Dead will expand on the  academia stuff.  Alright, we think the Prime  Minister for that speech should  welcome the leader of  opposition to start the opening  opposition case here here.  Hello, I was two. I'm audible.  Yes. I love the That's just  like a bad joke. Okay, I'm  going to start my speech and  just check it out and it's  fine. Again, notice that my  speech in three, two, one.  Panel, I have a confession to  make. In the state of school,  people often call me as someone  who does have ADHD and someone  who often actually involves in  like over compulsive behavior.  However, what the alternative  is is how they portrayed me in  high school. Then, they called  me weird, lost, and aloof. And  I think that this is basically  something that both governments  need to deal with. We will  always have an incentive to  label specific behaviors which  are outside of what we perceive  as normal. And I do believe  that the burden of gap is to  point out why any alternative  labeling will be far better.  What we are going to claim is  this is far better than any  alternative. It actively raises  the awareness of how many  people are suffering from this  and it actually helps people  like realize that they have  some of these behaviors, right?  Let's first start with  training, right? First of all,  how is this used today, right?  Because I do believe that  opening up is very vague on  this, right? Notice that even  when we use today, the terms  like OCD and ADHD very often,  we still acknowledge that there  is a scale of how much people  are suffering from all these  conditions, right? We do not  even the status quo. We do not  think or I do believe that like  bunch of people actually do not  agree with us that everyone who  suffers from OCD suffers to the  same extent, right? None of us  a day at the moment we have  huge amount of mental health  awareness. I don't think we  ever in history had such huge  levels of like mental health  awareness. Meaning to some  people like meaning to some  extended people do acknowledge  there is a scale between how  much I suffer from ADHD  probably very mild versus  someone who basically  struggling with this for their  whole life. So there is a scale  and opening government is wrong  when they say that we perceive  everyone who is having ADHD the  same. I think this is just like  very poor movements and  majority of people today do  have a more women's view on  this, right? Second of all what  happens if this is not the  popular terms that we use,  right? First of all, we use it  only most extreme cases, right?  You use ADHD only when you see  that someone is like truly  truly suffering from this,  right? Second of all, you use  other types of hyperboles to  explain some of the behaviors  which are outside of the norm,  right? Very often, you know,  core people who have ADHD as  not focused, as weird, as  aloof, people who do  gaslighting like we call them  as bad or evil, right? Or just  as weirdos, right? These types  of labelings will exist  anywhere it was the harm of  them later in my speech. Third  point in faming and then I  promise I'm going to get into  arguments, right? How we  actually explain what these  terms means, right? And I do  believe there's two levels on  this, right? First of all, when  we say that someone has ADHD,  we acknowledge that there is a  psychological explanation  behind the behavior. We also do  this when we call someone a  gaslighter, right? We don't  think this is something which  is inherent to them, right? We  think that very often their  DNA, their chemistry, very  other stuff which happened in  their life made them this way.  We don't perceive these  behaviors as something inherit  to them, right? And I do  believe the alternative is to  label them in a way which  points out that these traits  are inherent to them, right?  Meaning, you generally have  just less understanding for  what they are doing, right? I  think on our side of the house,  at least for whatever we treat  people do, you give up  psychological explanation which  makes it easy and possible to  correct, right? You actually  give people other chance when  you say that they have ADHD and  note that they are just like  lazy and lack focused, right? I  think secondly, right? When  this is more common, people it  as more normal, right? If we  label, bunch of people as  having ADHD, we are now  starting to perceive ADHD as  something which is quite common  in our society, right? That  means to some extent that we  have less stigmatize those that  do have it and be, they're  actually likely to support like  researching and funding and  investing in like solving ADHD  far more because now, we  actually acknowledge that this  is an issue which everyone  faces with on the side of the  gov, right? When we believe,  this is just like a small group  of people and the three minutes  would be reserved only for the  most extreme cases, right?  We'll lower the incentive of  the general public to get  informed on this fight, to  support funding of this, to get  a like research this last  fight, and I do believe this is  the rolling gaps have to stand  in. With all this being said,  what are the harms of this  policy? First harm, as I  already said, this actually  stagmatizes that astigmatizes  people who do have ADHD and who  basically who suffer anyway,  right? So no listen, bunch of  times, people who have so if  you are, if you're author is,  you will only portray people  who are very extreme cases of  ADHD, right? Well, this will  actually lead to is, first of  all, I do believe that you're  just like going to be less  likely to employ and to give  chances to people that do have  these conditions, but B, right?  There's going to be less need  for research funding as I  already said, right? Notice  that on our side of the house,  right? When you basically  acknowledge it, like there is a  group of people who are  somewhere in the middle, right?  Listen, bunch of people that  have like ADHD or like OCD are  not the most extreme ones.  Bunch of them are actually in  the middle when you basically  acknowledge this and you say  that this is quite common, you  lower the risk that very often  employers feel when they  basically need to do taxes to  these people, right? Like very  often increase the level of  understanding that people have  because now they don't see this  as something which is an  outlier. This is now a common  thing, something with bunch of  us have. Second harm of this  fight, you will use far worse  derogatory language to describe  behaviors which are outside of  not. As I already said, we  already need to label types of  behaviors because we are humans  and sometimes we're just bad,  right? We just need to give  explanation to stuff we do not  understand. Is you call people  that have ADHD not focus. You  call people for very often have  OCD as scripts, right? This is  bad because first of all, it  lowers the amount of empathy  for them in general, right?  Because now you describe that  these traits are inherent to  them, right? But second of all,  people that do have ADHD or  like people who gaslight,  right? Have harder time  accepting that they are doing  this, right? Because to some  extent, you're now not giving a  medical explanation of what  happened to them. You're giving  an explanation which says, you  are inherent this way.  Something is broken with you,  right? The alternative, the  alternative is you tell them,  right? This is a medical  behavior which can be  corrected. There is basically a  way for you to fix this, right?  This is not something which is  incurrent to you. I would not  take CD. This is deeply  internally inconsistent. If it  is the case, as you can see,  there is a broad trend towards  destigmatization in the status  quo on either side due to  increased awareness. Why on  earth is the likely name? No,  no, no. Exactly. These  stigmatization happen because  we started using these terms  more popular, right? Exactly  because now you're using these  transfer more. This is one of  the reasons which are driving  the stigma **** down, right? I  don't think it is I don't think  that these stigmatization  happen prior to it. What are  then the benefits of this?  First of all, you have more  knowledge about mental health  in general, right? Exactly  because people are using these  terms more. You have many more  articles which are basically  explaining the drones, right?  People engage in discussions  about what the **** does  gaslighting even mean like very  often disappointing by popular  TV shows in popular music  fight. It is good because first  of all, people have more  nuanced understanding of how  these conditions work right.  The alternative is you only  show that the most extreme  examples which are very often  unnuance, right? People have  less understanding of this and  there is less of a need in  popular public and in popular  media to talk about it, right?  Second of all, I I do believe  now you're more likely to  recognize some of these  conditions in yourself, right?  Because as I said, bunch of the  people are actually in the  middle of these conditions,  right? And Nissi portray only  the most extreme versions.  They're not likely to see that  and to acknowledge the issue  that they have, right? Because  they don't perceive it as  something which is similar to  it, right? I do believe that at  the end of the day. Raised the  amount of knowledge that we  have on these conditions,  right? Second of all, the  alternative is far worse and  third of all, we actually  increase the understanding and  funding for these conditions.  Please, don't be foresight. We  should call me aloof. At least  let them call me a someone who  has ADHD, very proud of us.  Right, we thank the leader of  hope for that speech. We now  welcome the Deputy Prime  Minister to proceed with the OG  case here here.  Hi, can everyone see and hear  me? Yep. Alright, give me one  second.  Um so for POIs, just put them  in the chat. I'll probably take  closing opposition at around  the 530 or 540 minute mark. Um  give me one second to drink and  then I'll start.  I'm going to start with, sorry,  my chest not up  Cool. Alright, it's up now.  Alright. I'm going to start in  three, two, one. Let me respond  to OOO first. Number one and I  think this deals of closing  opposition as well. Why you  cannot opt out of this? The  first thing I want to point out  is, if individuals who are  mentally ill are able to opt  out of this narrative on either  side, it significantly  undercuts all of the benefit  opening opposition I want to go  for because it means  simultaneously you're unable to  get a lot of these social  narrative benefit And this is  important. Because often times  when it comes to mental  illnesses, it is not just about  the internal calculus you have,  but the external support that  happens, which does not on  their side of the house. If  people do not perceive it as  urgent, which is the counter  factual Sharia gives you. If  people perceive your condition  to be serious and urgent,  you're more likely going to get  support, which is a  counterfactor they're never  able to get on their side of  the house. But second, sure  you'll give you a lot of  structural reasons as to why  you probably cannot opt out,  because it is literally  everywhere. It becomes  ingrained in the social  cultural vernacular because of  the rise of digitization, and  the likely manifestation of how  this narrative works, which  also beats a lot of opening  opposition, because Marta and  Yoti literally just asserts  that people are smart and can  see nuance. a lot of reasons  why that's unlikely. Number  one, the manifestation of this  is likely through things like  memes for example. Or through  things like little snippets on  social media because of the way  in which individuals  communicate nowadays. You are  literally unable to communicate  nuance with a 150 character  tweet. Or through a six second  video on TikTok. But number  two, like people are actually  pretty much **** who are really  busy and care about their own  life. So insofar as that was  the case. It was Unquest to why  people have an incentive to  read up on that nuance but  often times on both sides of  the house that's opening  opposition correctly  identifies. There's very little  educational capital that goes  into teaching individuals about  whether or not mental illnesses  exist and the extent of that  nuance. But three, even if you  do know about it, you have an  incentive to fit into the  social include. So the  overwhelming narrative says,  everyone should use toxic as a  joke, as it is done in debate  for example, when whips do  things that gaslight their  opening teams, then people  internalize to think that's how  they ought to behave. And that  social norm ends up overriding  any of the nuances that opening  opposition wants to go for.  Second response to opening  opposition. Why is it there  still an incentive for  individuals to beat up on  medical illnesses and This is  important because in so far  this was the case. A lot of the  benefit on individuals being  called weird is probably out.  The first thing I want to point  out is I think there's  symmetric incentives. But if  anything the incentives  actually exist better on our  side of the house for  individuals to go to the  doctor. One, you do not want to  see your family members  suffering. Two, often times big  pharma and medical professional  has been incentive to advertise  the seriousness of that issue.  The Delta and this response to  OPOI the Sharia is that it is  less likely that you get down  on their side of the house one.  Because you trivialize mental  illnesses. So it's seen as  important. But two, there's a  clogging of the industry  because rich individuals who  now preemptively think they  have ADHD because their friends  use it as a joke are more  likely going to go. Which means  it's 400 for individuals on the  ground to access it. So, on  both sides of the house, people  in the most urgent instances  have an incentive to go. You  make it far more inaccessible  on their side of the house. The  leader of opposition respond to  this is like, oh, no but is  this good? Because if you're  not called as someone with  ADHD, then, you're going to be  called weird or quirky. Here  are three responses to this.  Number one, I'm genuinely  unsure why being called weird  or is a bad thing. Like as a  kid I was called that a lot and  it was quite moralizing because  I was able to think I was  different. I was able to think  that I was unique. But second  response and this is important.  It is easier for these  disenfranchised youths to  reclaim and empower themselves  of that word. Because the issue  on their side is everyone is  called ADHD. So you're seen as  that weird kid. You're unable  to be different. You're unable  to shine and be who you want to  be. On our side you're able to  find other people who are  called together. You do not  have that capacity on their  side. Because rich elitists who  are really really mean are  necessarily going to call you  out. But the issue here and I  think this is quite important.  Is if on their side of the  house the default is you insult  people using ADHD. It kind of  overlaps in a way that makes it  far harder to solve systemic  issues. Because if you call  lazy people as someone with  ADHD for example, then you know  default to thinking, if you're  lazy, you have ADHD, all lazy  people have ADHD. So it's far  harder to get to the core of  the issue. On our side, it is  more easier because you only  tell individuals who you think  as having those issues the BB  ones that is likely going to be  the case. Final response here  and this is quite important. I  just don't know why if a kid is  called weird, they're not  going to goal, like, look at  their symptoms and then figure  out they have that mental  illness. If anything it is  better on our side of the house  because these are the only  individuals that are going to  be doing it and therefore, you  do not clog up the mental  system. Is there a perception  that you're never able to  change. Let me waste Shario's  material now. No, thank you,  Ruben. Number one, charter  proves why you delegitimize  medical institutions and you  trivialize the all of offense  even if steel has a banger  extension in this debate.  Number one, what this means is,  even if they can prove that  there's more medical funding or  more social impetus, the issue  is people are preempt to be  told not to go in the first  place because it is seen as  unimportant. For very  simple reason  proves.  Which is that parents are  going to dismiss it. Because  often times it is seen as super  super expensive. It is seen as  trivial. And it becomes a joke  to the extent in which the  framing I give you at the top.  It's true. This is logically  prior to all of authentic  funds. Because even if  authentic proved that the  medical industry is better. if  people just choose not to go.  You are not a magician. You  cannot make the goal. So people  are less able to get help. On  our side they stay as urgent.  And therefore you are able to  go and get help. But two, this  is also or outside of the  house. Forty reason that the  framing of urgency means you  have more targeted help towards  individuals that need it. The  comparative was that you're  likely going to pog a medical  institutions in a way that was  bad. Third piece of wing. And  this is important. On our side  of the on their side of the  house you create a perception  of redundancy in the academia  of the institution. Because you  think if it's the case that  everyone knows about ADHD in  the best case of opening  opposition. Why then do we need  to invest in medical  institutions or individuals who  do that research? Sharia  mechanizes this quite well. But  there's three additional  reasons. One. Y. One. You no  longer respect medical  institutions if you think the  average individual can do it  because there's a lower back  barrier of entry. Two, often  times, it's significantly less  cost. So, you're more likely  going to default into your  friends for example as compared  to experts, which is bad,  because experts often times are  accountable. Experts have  technocracy. Experts are people  you're able to literally point  to. Your friends are fairly  flaky and sometimes they might  give you really **** advice.  But three, it is also far  harder than for you to access  the medical professionals  because of structural barriers  that often times exist, you're  now disincentivized to do so.  Before I weigh why this is  important. closing up. The one  thing that I don't understand  about the second argument is  that if these people are so  important, if therapists are so  nice, why isn't their symmetric  incentives to go and fund these  people? No, because it is seen  as trivial and the issue is  it's super expensive on your  side. It's not as expensive.  I'm going to explain that  later. The reason why this  piece of wing is important as  well is because if we're able  to prove that there's a  perception of redundancy, what  ends up happening is A, you're  less likely going to get more  therapists going into the  field. So, it further clogs up  the system that Sharia talks  about. But two, you also get  less new treatment is  important. Because often times  discourse at the top trickles  down into better treatment to  help individuals. There's a cap  at how much effectiveness the  current treatment can have. So  more treatment, more diverse  treatment in the future is  exponentially more important.  But finally, this is important  because even if you don't buy  any of this, proves the  interpersonal relationship  argument, which is at best  certain in this debate. The  outcomes on the medical  industry and the social norms  is fairly speculative. So you  weigh the certainty above all  else. Finally then, what does  Sharia tell you about the way  in which funding works? One,  Sharia approves a rich  individuals clog up the system  which is back for two reasons.  A, you deprioritize the  vulnerable people always says  it's important. But two, over  time this also drives up the  prices of going to therapy.  Which responds to the CO PY  because it makes it more  inaccessible for individuals.  But see, it makes us less  social capital to fund it.  Because if the perception is,  if you don't need the state,  because your boyfriend can just  diagnose you, then there's less  ability to coal less funding to  help individuals, or to  galvanize individuals to make  policies to help individuals  with mental illnesses. So the  most vulnerable individuals on  their side, system lose out.  That's why OG has to win this  debate. Propose.  Alright, we thank the deputy  prime minister for that speech.  We welcome the deputy leader of  opposition to conclude the  opening half and the opening  opposition case. Get here. I'll  just assume based on Marto's  speech that I am also in fact  audible. I will be starting my  speech in three, two, one.  Panel, it's very rare that  studying medicine and working  in a psychiatric clinic has  advantages. But in this  particular debate, it happens  to, yes, they have those  advantages. I'm going to  explain in my speech why it is  necessary to understand what  other people are going through  in order to have to free up the  resources to help them and make  help for them accessible  because you need to empathize  with their standpoint in order  to be to help them out. Before  I get into this line of  argumentation, a lot of  rebuttal to opening  governments. The first thing we  hear is when everyone has ADHD,  then noone has it. Panel,  that's like saying, if everyone  has COVID, then noone has it,  because a lot of people have  mild symptoms and then noone  takes the serious symptoms,  seriously. It's just unclear to  me why people lack the mental  capacity to understand that  mental health conditions exist  on a spectrum, exist on a  scale, and that some people are  hit harder, and some people are  more hit more softly. It's  significant harder for people  to empathize with something  that is fundamentally outside  of their ability to understand  and comprehend. Most people,  yes, have suffered a little bit  of depression. But if they  don't understand that what they  went through was in fact,  depression, then they might  only understand someone  actually being giving sick  given sick leave for being  depressed as other just a  little sad. I don't understand  as opposed to having the  necessary understanding of, you  know, dealing with it. We are a  few things, however, for local  government. We hear this idea  that because you don't have an  incentive to invest in the  system, it's just trivial,  untrue. If more people access  the system, you actually and  have the and think that this is  something that is necessary to  be treated. You have a greater  incentive for states to  actually fund the system in the  first place. It is unclear to  me why when something becomes a  bigger issue in society, we  spend less money on it. This is  just an assertion from opening  government. Then they tell us,  ah, but now it's a stigma when  you have a severe case. Look,  at best for opening government,  the stigma is symmetrical  because if noone understands  it, then you're just as smart  as explained to you, you know,  considered crazy or weird or  you know, at worst, you might  even be just considered  psychopathic. These are the  worst instances of where of why  people are actually in status  quo afraid of going to  psychiatrists and  psychologists. They have  historically helped because it  is so heavily stigmatized in  society and has been. Now that  the discourse is increasing  inside and people actually have  an incentive to educate  themselves because it is  becoming part of the colloquial  use of language. So, you have a  greater incentive for media to  educate people on what  gaslighting means, on what  toxic ity means, you actually  have a higher likelihood of  people being educated on these  issues and being able to  empathize with Then we hear  this idea that ah the entire  field of psychology is somehow  delegitimized because reasons.  First of all, in status quo,  people have also delegitimized  that as I already pointed out.  Secondly, no, it probably  doesn't. There's actually  significantly more likely that  it is actually legitimized on  our set of house because people  can empathize with mental  health issues on a level that  they otherwise cannot. And  Marta has already explained why  that's how people interact with  it. Finally, we hear this idea.  Finally, let's take them at an  even higher level. Let's assume  the field of psychology does  take a little bit of harm. We  still think that's worth it. If  on our side, there's generally  speaking more empathy for  people with mental health  issues on our side of the  house. And this is where I get  into my into the constructive  of my case. Because it's really  important for you to understand  why you why empathizing with  another person's standpoint is  necessary as a precondition for  you helping them. Let's start  with the let's start first with  the important bid. Ted is  correct that people are  generally speaking busy of  thinking of own lives. I fully  agree with that. We generally  have a tendency to consider  things from our perspective,  From our standpoint. Mental  health, by its very nature, is  generally speaking, invisible  to people in in the  overwhelming number of cases  because it is something that we  suffer from quietly, right? The  fact that I have severe ADHD to  the fact that I am considered  severely disabled by the state  of Georgia. Obvious, someone  looks at me. That is the  invisible nature of mental  health issues. That means that  eh eh that means that mental  health issues while  simultaneously mental health  issues can represent a  significant detriment to  interacting in society. This  can be like requiring  additional assistance are  sickly because you're going  through a depressive eh eh eh  phase, right? In in the in  previous decades, we often had  to go to colleagues in the  medical field and ask them to  give sick notes for other  conditions because people were  so afraid of being labelled as  being, you know, crazy, that  they would actively seek help  outside of it because they were  afraid they would not be there  would be a lack of  understanding. Why, where does  this the question then is where  are people actually more likely  to offer us the kind of help  that we need on our side of the  debate? It is just ultimately  it comes ultimately from people  having empathy. How do you gain  empathy? OG claims you will  have empathy because everyone  has these conditions.  Therefore, it is considered as  just normal but this is  structurally untrue. Because  the underlying mechanism to be  able to actually emphasize with  other people, empathize with  other people, is that you need  to understand what is going on  with them. Check your intuition  panel. If you walk on look on  the staircase, probably in most  cases, most people will just  see access to a building,  entrance to a building.  however, someone who cut rocks  up in a wheelchair is probably  going to see inherently a lack  of access to the building  because their personal  perception of what he built, of  what that looks like is  something that inherently  excludes excludes them. Most  people are able to consider  what it feels like to not be  able to walk. A, because many  of us have either hurt our  legs, broken our bones,  sometimes we're in states where  we were unable to walk, and  therefore, can easily empathize  with this highly visible lack  of access, but the kind of  access that is being eh, the,  deprived in mental health  issues which is not visible is  not as easily accessible and  therefore needs to be  highlighted and is more easily  highlighted by making the by  making this by having  popularized the colloquial use  in the in our general language  before continue closing. This  is not a regrets debate. Do you  truly believe that all of the  things like rising rates of  autism, doctors trying to make  mental health care more  accessible and increasing  medical knowledge and  understanding conditions aren't  far more significant  contributing factors to this  generally speaking only in an  academic field and is  structurally inaccessible to  the average person and  presumably yes. For example,  when feminists talk about, you  know, when feminists or racial  scholars talk about things like  white supremacy but these  haven't yet made it into the  general colloquial language of  people, then often times you,  what you actually do is create  significant amounts of backlash  against these types of  education and what in terms of  wanting to spend additional  funding. In fact, when people  who generally don't have the  time or the education or the  money or the access to actually  or the incentive to learn about  these terms. It is  significantly less likely that  this popular rises. It is  unclear to me why the why even  if doctors and medical health  professionals have the  incentive to popularize it, why  the media would listen to this,  why the average person would  listen to this, etcetera.  However, when every person who  interact with your friends,  your parents, your teachers,  everyone uses this language. It  is something that you  fundamentally are significantly  more likely to understand.  Meaning that on the comparative  in terms of where understanding  is greater, that is squarely on  our side. Because understanding  is the necessary prerequisite  in order for people to actually  access and to understand people  and need to be and need to have  help and how to be given help  and what help looks like and  why you are entitled and  deserve that help. This debate  called squarely on side  opposition. Incredibly proud to  oppose.  Alright, we thank the leader of  OP for that speech. We've now  come to the end of the opening  half. We welcome the member of  to start the closing half and  the CGK is here here  Great. Can people confirm I'm  clearly audible? Yeah, we can  hear you. Great. Starting in  three, two, one. The problem  with both top half teams is  they do not understand the  nuance of the human experience  when you are struggling.  Crucially, people have a vast  array of different conditions  whether they are mental health  conditions or not, just  suffering from gaslighting.  People have responded to  suffering differently and  different people need to hear  different advice from different  people at different times. What  therapy speak uniquely does is  homogenizes and collectivizes  lots of different struggles  under specific umbrella terms  that fail to reflect the  nuances of people suffering and  trades off directly against  seeking medical help the most  vulnerable people, IE, the  people who are sick. First  point of framing. I do not  think in the absence of  popularization, other  narratives with stigma would  take over. and I want to do  with OO here because this is  not a regrets debate and I do  not think destigmatization  happened as a result of the  popularization of Therapy  Speak. Why? Firstly, prior to  this popularization, which is  fairly recent phenomenon, we  had increasing medical  knowledge and understanding of  mental conditions, we  understand contributing  factors, IE, brain chemistry,  gene pools, biological heredity  for specific conditions, and  things like this. Secondly,  increasing diagnos of things  like depression and autism  sparked a lot of awareness in  the in the public conscious.  Yosi says, ah, when it's just  in the academic sphere, nobody  hears about it. But when autism  rates rise, people have  relatives who are diagnosed  with these kind of things.  Friends, parents, and people  see other people have  diagnoses. When depression is  on the rise massively and you  see visible signs of that among  the body politic, more people  are likely to be aware of that  existence of those things, not  passively neglecting it  entirely. But thirdly,  crucially, there are tons of  other narratives that exist in  status quo that say that people  are legitimate for being  different and have a to cook  with things differently. This  is very popular when we look at  things like the  commercialization of self-care  and popular media. That says  you are legitimate for coping  with things in different  mechanisms and you are  legitimate for having  differences even if you don't  want to put a label on it or  acceptance of different queer  identities that say you are  legitimate for being different  even if you don't fall under a  specific umbrella term. I think  this is often cross applied to  things like this. But finally,  doctors and so on are going to  have incentives to reach out  and make these things  accessible to people through  things like WebMD, through  things like easily accessible  online things like Google that  can discuss these kind of  things and people who actually  have these conditions still  going to speak out on either  side of the house. So, I really  don't think they get a large  delta in terms of  popularization. What happened  to the absence of this  popularization? I think  narratives of destigmatization  without labels will become  significantly stronger. Why?  Firstly, I think that in so far  as I've already proven that a  lot of acceptance has risen for  situations that each individual  is unique and their own  experience is something that is  unique. More people are willing  to accept that in so far as the  popularization things like your  own truth in the media through  things like the Me Too movement  have become quite prominent but  secondly, in so far as most  people believe that you should  not be prescriptive, I, my life  is my life alone. You reactive  situation in a way that suits  others rather than yourself. I  think it's probably the case  that narratives of  destigmatization would emerge  on either side of the house.  But finally, even if they're  winning on awareness very  marginally and I give you  significant reasons to cast out  on that. I'm going to explain  why the greater awareness is  bad. Because more information  is not an inherent good if it  comes at the expense of  misinformation. First  extension. How does  popularization look and why  can't it be nuanced? I want to  characterize first of this  population actually looks  because OG asserts it seeps  into every vernacular. You see  memes and therefore you take  things less seriously. I think  it far, far more structurally  flawed. Why? Firstly, it looks  at people on social media. You  have authority and claiming to  be an authority on the matter.  This looks like your favorite  influencer, your smart cousin,  people you already attribute a  degree of trust to like  celebrities or influencers  speaking out about this kind of  things. This is why in many  cases, you likely trust them  and ascribe a unique authority  to them even if they're wrong  but secondly, the  popularization is a degree to  which medical services and  mental health services are able  to be accessed because note  that the broad destigmatization  for mental health that is  happening symmetrically at  least to an extent, creates  incentives for doctors to reach  more patients to easily  accessible online forms.  Through utilizing social media  and through spreading awareness  of conditions by like  dedicating specific days like  Autism Day for example and  things like this, and states  have incentives to make these  things successful in so far as  a more healthy mental  population is better and  broadly increasing scientific  knowledge happens on either  side of the house. What  popularization does is it  deludes the platform so there's  experts significantly. But  thirdly, popularization creates  a race to the bottom because  the more popular these terms  become, the more content  creators, influencers, and  celebrities have incentives to  attribute symptoms of IE  overeating can be a symptom of  many things. It might not be  depression. But the most  popular conditions, IE, the  ones that rise to the top in  discourse you attribute a lot  of different symptoms to the  same cause. But fourthly  there's a trend towards  homogenization. IE grouping  different cases that sound like  gaslighting depression to one  specific catch all term. Even  though there are many many  other mental illnesses like  borderline personality  disorder. Like various forms of  mental incivility that are very  similar to depression but very  different in terms of the  actual solutions to that kind  of things. When you homogenize  those things makes it harder  for people to find the right  solution. But finally when  these terms enter popular  lexicon, they become single  catch all solutions that have  become common knowledge. IE  people more likely be  prescriptive about them to a  significant degree icing. The  right response to gaslighting  is leaving your partner. The  right response to depression is  doing X rather than why. When  in reality, people have many  different nuances and you need  to talk to a medical  professional about these kind  of things. What does this do to  the debate? Firstly, this  characterization already places  over OG because OG is dependent  on characterizing to unlock any  of their impacts. They barely  do this. They say  popularization happens in  harmful way because it's memes,  it's not nuanced. This is far  better. But secondly, it also  beats OO because O is these  truths be explained in a very  very nuanced way. I gave  structural reasons why  information doesn't translate  in people's minds into a way  that is reasonable rather it  homogenizes conditions, makes  people think they have false  solutions to their problems,  and dilutes the quality of  actual medical experts he's  getting to you. This is  sufficient to win this debate,  but now I'm going to explain  why it robs people of coping  mechanisms. Firstly, it  increases the odd that everyone  in your social circle believes  your situation makes the  criteria for a specific high  profile personality disorder,  or a specific term like  gaslighting which is high point  level, at the expense of  others. This reduces the  diversity in coping mechanism  can turn to because different  friend groups and different  people know you differently but  now the majority of people are  likely to leave a one very high  profile mental illness rather  than a diversity or a spectrum  of different ones. They're  formerly going to counsel with  homogenized solutions because  the one that seeped in the  popular culture which is far  less diversity and solutions  you attribute to. But secondly,  what everyone's telling you the  same thing. You have far more  reduced coping mechanisms. What  everyone labels you with one  thing. even if you don't have  that condition, it's really,  really hard to think that  you're ever going to hear  actual solutions for people  because you know they're  going to tell you, I'm just  depressed. Ah, everybody's told  me that. I don't know. I'm  depressed. You preemptively opt  so you never get the empathy  that Yosi wants you to get  before I go on opening up. If  you're correct that people have  much greater understanding of  mental health regardless,  presumably that would be have  significantly more nuanced  understanding also on social  media. Either people have more  understanding or they do not.  Sure. No. Because the  popularization necessarily  crowds out the expertise that  otherwise would reach them and  even if it's marginally less  accessible, we get better  quality information to more  people so we outweigh you and  flip you. You're out of this  debate. Why do we make it less  likely that doctors and nurses  and experts reach you? It's  because of awareness. They now  never connect with the people  who need it the most. You feel  preemptively self-selecting to  the most popular diet believe  they have that coping mechanism  and then move on with that. But  finally, the popularization  gives credence to people with  the most social clout. So, you  look at the white girl who  says, I deal with my depression  by making a soy latte on  Instagram think that that's the  solution rather than embracing  the actual solution that would  allow you to embrace nuances in  your thing. This means the  solutions you raise are far  worse and don't align with your  personal background to a  significantly greater degree  that compares Business argument  outweigh OG. Firstly, it  outweighs OG by explaining why  it is the case regardless of  the conditions you're willing  to get access to nuanced and  successful advice on our side  of the house but secondly, it  explains why in the absence of  these kind of things, you  preemptively self-select out of  asking for help. So, it's  unical you ever get access.  Finally, funding. It's honestly  symmetrical but the reason you  get more of it on our side is  because what happens, you  create an informal third sector  for the service. I wax get paid  for this kind of thing more.  Doctors are getting less money  which means they're more  underfunded significantly. This  is the only actual delta in  funding in even though I spent  only 10 seconds on it, it's  still more important than  anything Top Half said. I'm  incredibly proud to win from  closing golf.  Right? We think the for that  speech, we welcome the member  of opposition to start the  closing opposition case here.  Uh hi, before I begin, I would  just like to say Matt, please  don't say you want from  extension. We haven't even  spoken yet. Beat us first and  then win bro. Anyway, in the  chat, I'll take one 5 30. I'll  take one from OG. Okay. So,  starting in three, two, one.  So, this is going to be a very  simple seal. Firstly, unlike  all that the circus, we're  actually going to give you  structural reasons as to why  this narrative is good and  counterbalanced. Thus, we will  deal with majority of the prop  harms because this, how you say  it has accountability  mechanisms on it and secondly,  we'll provide you a vertical  extension about the premise  that leader of opposition  asserts and he also tries to  analyze the yellow in the last  minute about why this why  information leads to good  action within the greater  society et cetera. Let's get  into the first premise but  before that, let's get into how  the debate works so far.  Marta's in her speech. Leader  of Op says, we live in a  society where it is balanced  and people understand that  there is a specter et cetera.  no structural analysis on why  this is the case. There is no  likelihood analysis and you  cannot credit this if this is  the case, but secondly, Matt in  CG, responses by saying, this  is not the case, this is in  fact a toxic narrative,  etcetera. We're going to  provide you three reasons as to  why this is not the case and in  fact, this narrative has  counterbalanced mechanisms in  this short case. The first is  that you have counter narrative  that exists based on the misuse  of this organ. This counter  narrative is likely to come  based on the actual people who  actually has this sort of of  diseases and sickness within  them and these sorts of keys.  Based on what OG said, this is  so bad to them. This is so  horrible. These people will  most likely speak out. These  people will most likely go to  talk shows. These people will  most likely be very loud.  etcetera. Not these people both  have incentive in terms of them  communicating each other but  also have ability. They can  talk together in support groups  and social media etcetera. So  firstly, they're likely to be  listened to because they're  likely to be vocal minority.  So, the post is likely to be on  them because they are our the  receiving end of this sort but  secondly, they're likely to be  viewed as the ones who actually  do dictate the morbid disorder  case based on the analysis that  these people, how do you say  based on the analysis that  society actually rules in these  sorts of people because they  are how you see the real  traumatic traumatized people in  this sort of case. So, this is  the first reason. The second  reason is that, how do you say,  the conversation most likely  exist around doctors in this  short case. What do people do  when they don't know the answer  to something? They go to the  expert, right? This is very  intuitive thing. They, so when  this, when this, how you say,  is talked about, when these  terms are talked about, mostly  in their debates, etcetera,  most likely people will go to  experts and experts will  explain, this is how this looks  like, this is in reality, what  are these sorts of things? Not,  the norms existing and  terminology existing and the  debate happening, is the  precondition of these type of  people gaining political  capital, being invited in talk  shows, and actually talking  about this people. Note we have  biased sports experts these  were kids, you know, school  teachers, doctors, etcetera. So  wider society will most likely  listen to these sorts. So this  is why it equals out. But  thirdly, people have  internalized stigma towards co  opting these type of things if  they don't believe that this is  the case. So, here is how it  goes. You most likely have  lived in a society where you  before you obviously know their  mental sicknesses, right? So we  got a very visceral image of  what this is like to be the  case, right? So you personally  feel bad and this feeling, even  though in the normalization  happens, most people have these  two narratives in there. They  people are not stupid. You're  most likely feel bad if this is  not the case. So this means  this narrative will actually  activate it. People will  actually use this. When they  legitimately believe that this  is the case. When they  legitimately do this sort of  thing et cetera. It is  happening. So this is why the  narrative is balanced and this  deals with majority of the sort  of case. Before I get into our  positive case, Matt says, but  there will be normalization  happening anyway. All of these  reasons are western reasons.  This happening in the west were  300 million people exist. All  these reasons do not work in  the developing world. All these  reasons do not work in Eastern  Europe. So we would pause it  that it's better for this  narrative to actually continue  to exist in these systems so  you're able to get this sort of  normalization does not happen  in the west of the world. Let's  get into our extension. So what  is the problem with all? Uh  Marta says you're observed that  something is common. Those  people who get how do you say  educated about it? It will be  normalized. Again. No analysis.  The analysis or the attempt of  analysis comes in the objective  of opposition. I'm going to be  extremely technical here deputy  leader of opposition says  people have preconceived biases  as to why they do not care  about this issue and then says  this will somehow trigger  empathy. They do not prove why  this triggers empathy, right?  Here is the analogy. Poor  people exist in society. Our  and people know about the harms  of poor people. Our people  necessarily are empathetic  towards people. No. You have  other people who are not  empathetic. So the question is,  why specifically this being an  illness will trigger the  empathy and disorders? This is  the damn proof, I'll prove to  you. There are three reasons  why this will change right.  Firstly, people consider  sicknesses as arbitrary, as  random. In many of these cases,  this is how you see random  sentence displaced on you. So,  it's not something that you  necessarily chose in these  particular circumstances. So,  this is why people have an  empathetic reaction towards you  because it will be the case.  This is not true for let's say  poverty where there are counter  analysis say you choose to be  poor, people are lazy,  etcetera. Secondly, it's very  visceral. Like people, how  would they have negative aspect  of you being sick and these  sorts of cases and this being  problematic etcetera. But  thirdly you can associate with  past experiences and past  things that you have and the  past. Yourself will most likely  sick but other people around  you are sick. Like your family  members etcetera. So this is  why information will trigger  empathy. They do not prove this  sort of thing. But second thing  they know proof is why  information will lead to you.  How do you say? Taking good  actions in this sort of key. So  here is where I'll expand this  and this sorting. What do good  actions look like? They look  like two things. One, reading  more on the topic, getting more  educated and two, basing your  comments and your actions on  this sort of thing. So you if  you're talking to a person with  mental health issues to change  your the way you're talking, to  change the behavior  disheartening. Before I  continue with three more  mechanisms OG Bo. The millions  of people who already have  illnesses but don't have the  money to afford solution to  this. Need the people around  them to take them seriously.  But at the point where they  trivialise these mental  illnesses that urgency goes  away. I gave you three reasons  as to why they don't trivialize  them. There is a counter  narrative. It is  counterbalance. You give no  reasons. That's why we beat  you. I like bucking more.  Mechanisms. Firstly, notice  that people own balance are  conformed and there are  structural reasons for why this  is the case. First thing you  want to choose the path of  least resistance because this  is easier, it's less least cost  you, etcetera. But secondly,  this is an evolution mechanism,  right? People are conformers  because that's an easy way for  you to create society's tribes  in these type of things. What  does this mean? This, the only  reason people are anti-mental  health is because the narrative  so far was mental health is not  a real disease. But when the  narrative changes to this is  actually a problem, there are  accessible terms in this sort  of thing. Most who actually  change their minds because  people will be conformants.  They're most likely become to  what is the new trendy thing,  what is the new acceptable  thing. So when this is a how  you say a slick new thing that  Zoomers talk about all the  time, then people will just go,  yeah, sure, that's the case.  No, this is super important  social, now this is the  normalization, but secondly,  there is usually a short value  when you see this sort of  thing, right? You mostly go,  ah, what the, what do you mean  by education? What is this sort  of thing? So, when they show  value comes when someone  literally groundbreaks their  conception, this is the moment  when you want to learn more,  right? This is the moment when  you go on Wikipedia, you read  more, you watch the interviews,  so you try to get involved in  this in this sort of case. But  thirdly, there is likely to be  a cancel culture created when  people are not informed of  these sort of  So most  likelywhen celebrities speak  out about this sorting and they  speak out wrongly, people will  cancel them, but also in  conversations, people will be  ridiculed, if they don't  necessarily know the right  terminology, if they don't know  this in a particular way, if  they're doing this badly, so  this, this proves you the link  between information existing,  and actually people taking good  actions, which leads to the  overall benefits when we  promote them. Proto  we think the member of  opposition for that speech, we  now welcome the government whip  to conclude the CG case here  here.  Hi, am I Otto from that mute  yourself?  Okay, great. Can somebody say  something so I can make sure  that I can hear POIs? I can  hear you, Ahmed. Great, that is  audible. For POIs, please put  them in the chat. Don't  verbally interrupt me.  Genuinely, don't verbally  interrupt me unless I cut out  randomly for some reason.  Great. Uh, just getting my  notes sorted.  Not going to use your camera.  Troya, stop **** texting Matt  Okay. Great. Three, two, one.  Yosi asks a POI that is fair,  which is, if it's the case that  destigmatization is happening  symmetrically, why turns that?  It seldom intuitive, but this  is important. One, Maddox, what  is unique about the  environments, where these terms  are used, IE, the authority,  the problems with TikTok. They  happen in 15 seconds and  necessarily simplify things.  How social media influencers  influencers have over roaming  power over this narrative  relative to people with other  countervailing sets of  authority that ought to be  listened to more that are  crowded out. Secondarily, Max  means what is unique about  these terms specifically that  differentiates it from just  popularization I either  homogenize it. They create a  race to the bottom in terms of  sensationalizing mental health  businesses. All of this means  that the narrative is one that  is devoid of nuance and really  really bad. Matt explains and  flips the OO and CO and he said  that this narrative short  circuits the path to even get  to access to therapy. Let's  deal with with CO now. Firstly  on the responses to us. They  say there's a counter narrative  by people who are sick. What or  what mental illness? One note  they have substantially less  authority because you can't  tell who is in fact the person  that is or is not having a  mental illness. But secondarily  people who don't have it have  an inflated sense of authority  to crowd out those because they  believe their self diagnoses is  legitimate. And because it's  invisible you cannot tell who  is correct and who is not.  Secondarily they say ah but you  can still go to experts ah on a  you go to experts on our side  which show is the response like  the crowding out mechanism.  There's no engagement fights  experts but secondarily, the  info side literally says that  people partaking in speculative  psychiatric diagnoses of others  including public figures. They  cannot contradict the way this  motion works. On their case  then, firstly, the developing  world. If  ironic the third mechanism.  People are conforming. So they  will listen to the public  figure with social authority  but not the medical authority  because there's low barriers of  entry. Directly what said in  the  of  finally on cancel culture.  Noonai already responded to  this in their response to us on  why the counter narrative by  people who are sick. It's  unlikely the counter narrative  in cancel culture can even  materialize because don't  know who has the culture this  mechanism doesn't work. It's  quite ineffective. And so in in  far is you don't know who to  believe. You don't know like  there's also a counter culture  to the counter culture of  cancel culture and people  saying cancel culture is  stupid. But cancellation also  just means that celebs will  default to commonly held  tourisms at the expense of  offering real advice. They will  instead just offer the least  helpful, least in depth stuff,  so their best case is the  cancellation thing mitigates  their own benefit. is good.  They assume that the common  prospective solution to  gaslighting is something that  suits you and otherwise not.  IE, they give you a medication  for an issue that you might not  have. It is better even if you  do not get a prescriptive  solution that it is not one  that is for a different illness  that might make it actually  worse. Honorable, their case is  normalization means there's  less a reason to stigma and  create more fun and a lot of  good benefits. They need to  explain why Therapy Speak is  the mechanism for raising  awareness for mental health  issues and empathy. Is why this  isn't the reason for the stigma  going down and it's likely  without Therapy Speak, there  would still largely be  awareness of mental health.  One, literally studies outside  of Therapy Speak. The fact that  almost every teen has  depression, rising rates of  suicide. IE people are aware  that people are suffereven  without use of this  particular terminology and the  media picks it up because it's  a large social phenomenon that  is proven by data outside of  the speed. Secondarily, a  desire for entertainment and  media to increase the  representation of marginalized  groups as a whole and stories.  Thirdly, the fact that the  disability movement since the  60s before this phenomenon is  largely pushing for these kinds  of things. Fourthly, the fact  that doctors accessibility via  social media and large  platforms to raise awareness.  IE them getting TikTok and  etcetera telling you to get  tested or diagnosed but we  shouldn't crowd those avenues  out. Or fifthly, the  advancements in the academic  field that trickle down to  everyone. IE, schools getting  better guidance counselors.  They have better training from  the academic studies. They mean  you get better testing to see  what what issues people have  with sixty-five. The  accessibility of social media  many of the people who are  diagnosed to share their story  and build empathy and say they  are just like everyone else.  They just need different kinds  of help. But now they have more  authority because you don't  crowd out the people who  misinform. The upshot. Their  whole case and impacts rely on  this phenomenon. Being directly  responsible or a tipping point.  But never explain why Therapy  Speak which is what the motion  is about would outweigh  anything else that I just  listed for you. Now when you  normalize I think the people  who actually have it or seen as  the new extreme. IE they aren't  like the normal ADHD that  everyone has. super super weird  now. It's actually seen as even  more inherent to you because  they are behaving contradictory  to what people expect.  Secondarily, they say, ah,  there's far worse than  derogatory terms for people who  do have ADHD. Why don't they,  why don't people just literally  say, I have ADHD if somebody  calls them weird. They never  explain why people who actually  have it, don't have that  capacity to utilize an  understanding of mental health  that has been rising. I, if you  have a mental illness, maybe  you don't want people to know  who prefer they call you aloof  instead of sick in the head.  Oh, POI, quick. I'm more likely  to for expert advice on ADHD  when I hear the term being used  commonly and with understanding  on your side of the house, I  hear it being used only very  rarely and for most extreme  examples and I and I'm less  likely I think we were I think  you were more likely to reach  out for ADHD. There's rising  awareness that mental health is  something that matters and you  ought get tested. I have ADHD  and the solution is I make a  **** like coffee lobby in the  morning to deal with my  depression and now you think  you've solved it. That's why  you get event and less better  responses. Finally, for the  people that don't have it, they  deflect accountability and use  it as an excuse for bad  behavior. I I am abusive  because I'm depressed now and I  can self diagnose. This  decreases empathy if anything  because now **** people make  the whole group of them now  look as if they are something  inherently wrong with them. Why  do we beat OG very clearly?  Aside from the reasons that  Matt gave you, their case is  reliant on an idea that people  cannot differentiate the scale  of suffering. They never  explain why people cannot  differentiate the scale which  all very fairly point against  OG. I'm not saying any of OG s  wrong but they never answer the  central question from up. Matt  explains it by explaining how  the process of popularization  means that you by definition  have to not be able to  differentiate the skilling. Cuz  you crowd out doctors. You  create a race to the bottom.  That is the lynchpin for their  case to actually work. But even  if you don't buy that his  second extension outweighs for  the reason that he gave Bennett  only to repeat. Now that Ruman  has gone very proud to win from  CG.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  You seem to  be forgetting one  final aspect of the whole  winning from CG thing. Come on,  give me the phone. Sorry.  Sorry. Starting in three, two,  one. I'm going to do two very  basic things. Firstly, I'm  going to engage with opening  half and explain why we the the  fact to take opening opposition  and why are reasons are their  cases containers on this? Then  I'm going to engage with  closing opposition. Firstly,  and I want to note that a  deadlock exists in in opening  up because if the perception of  these narratives is bad, then  opening government are correct  and people have bad perceptions  of them and this leads to  people who actually do have  these illnesses to not be  understood, to not be erect in  this sort of way. Or if opening  opposition are right, that they  are good, then opening  government do not get their  impact of people misunderstand  these illnesses, opening  opposition do get their  impacts, people understand  these illnesses compared to you  more. But note, they all don't  get those impacts if they don't  prove that these illnesses will  be perceived accurately and  that these terms will describe  these illnesses accurately.  Because it doesn't matter if  people now more about ADHD if  they have a wrong understanding  of what ADHD is. Because then  this means that the false  defaction they'll take is not  towards people who deserve it  in this sort of way. They give  no structural reasoning for YTC  represented in a good way. All  they say is there is a new  ones, there is a scale. Why is  there any ones? Why is there a  scale? We say that ah how you  say that if this is presented  badly in this sort of way then  we can counter it. There are  experts who can say in this in  this sort of way. Oh they said  oh but there's a but they never  ask why there is a scale, why  there is a degree of nuance. In  so far as all of their benefits  are contingent on this one  piece of analysis in Forex. I  want to note here, even if you  accept that closing government  reports are reasons we don't  have reasons, it doesn't  matter, because we gave  reasons. Top half did not give  reasons, and therefore, even  these sorts of reasons in so  far stock have is entirely  contingent on this one sort of  piece of analysis. Uh, we we  should be able to take it even  if academic moves proposing  government. But the second  important piece of extension  and what opening oppositions  cases? Because opening  oppositions cases, you will  know more. And I think they  proved this to some extent. You  get more information on it. But  they never proved why knowing  that Lito Marta has ADHD means  you stop bullying little Marta  in this sort of way. All they  say is oh but you get empathy.  Why don't you get empathy for  little Marta anyways? The only  thing that changes is a  difference of how you label  Little Marta. They needed to  prove that the difference in  labeling, you know, related to  is the thing that is contingent  on outcomes. Here is how we  prove this because now you  associate it with illness.  Because now it is made of  illness. It's not just someone  being weird. And then all of  Roman's asymmetrical reasons on  why you can see illness to be  something much more important  or to have empathy for  specifically those people. They  do not have the reason why this  change of name leads to this.  But also secondly because it is  now created a disorder of  phenomenon. The people have  mentors. You have to respect  mental illness. It surprises  people for the most part Uh how  would you say conformis? Then  this now means how do you say?  Be nicer. That they're not  going to bully. That they're  going to meet to a sort of  positive actions. They're  talking about in a certain way.  All they say is you know so you  you be good. They never explain  why on the counter factual.  You're not going to be good. We  explain that you don't have  empathy for everyone but you  have empathy for a particular  kind of people. We now allow  Marta to be that particular  kind of people. Final thing I  want to outweigh. They say more  people are going to go to the  therapist and they're going to  realize if they themselves have  therapy. This to me a very  questionable clash on the  simple basis that if people are  really suffering, there are  massive symmetrical incentives  to go to a doctor anyways.  Maybe there is a difference,  sure, but they never prove why  this is the major tipping point  in this sort of way. We don't  base our case on this. What we  say is, this changes how people  act towards you and how people  perceive you and act towards  you is much more fluid based on  the sort of language that is  used in this sort of way. So,  this is the only benefit that  is not contingent on the  analysis we give, we outweigh  it therefore we should take top  half. Now, onto posing  government. Firstly, they say,  awareness is symmetrical. All  of the reasons for why this is  the case is west centric. There  has not been big research about  mental illness over here.  Nobody knows **** Uh a lot of  these teams have not come in.  Uh we don't have competent  doctors and all these sorts of  ways. But you know what we do  have? We have movies. We have  the TV show. We have all of  these sorts of things. We have  the Tiki Toki in this way. And  then language comes in  comparatively far easier than  anything else can come in,  right? Uh you you'll not be  able to get all of these sort  of things but if there is a  people using it, when you see  it on the movies, then in those  context, whether it's the least  destigmatization, then you get  massive in such way. Also,  let's accept the automatic  reasons for this  stigmatization. This is a very  vulnerable group. I'm extra  reason for this democratization  looks pretty important to me in  this sort of way. If it relates  to how people treat these  people, what kind of benefits  they give them, I still don't  why there being other reasons  why this happens doesn't mean  that our team is not so  important. Now, on to game  rebuttals to us or rather but I  want to lose weight. Uh if you  accept all of their rebuttals.  With all of our impacts, right?  And not so many people change  the way they took people with  mental illness. People  potentially feel bad about  these sorts of things. Notice  ours is much more concrete  impact because you don't know  how people feel. with mental  illness. You don't know how  different things affect them.  You don't know all of these  sorts of things. But you know  the people treating them nicely  is a good thing to them. did  not give this wing. We are the  first one to give this wing in  this sort of way. But then  ricotta to them. Firstly they  say you will not listen to the  authority figures because you  cannot tell who has authority  and because they will crowd out  the others. Before I go on  opening government. All proofs  that everyone debates who to  believe regardless. We show  that the existence of the  debate means people don't think  they need professionals and  they already understand it.  That takes away the urgency you  require to care for someone.  No, no, no, if you get a doctor  who says, no, no, this is not  mental illness. Here is what  mental illness is, and these  people get asymmetrical  platform because of our thing  because of this change of  language, because of this  comparative attention, then no.  People do not just have wrong  perceptions. Do they understand  it in this sort of way? But  now, I want to give proposing  opposition because they say  it's hard to tell who is  actually the expert. It's very  easy to tell who is the expert.  Spoiler alert. Doctors are the  expert. Uh it's usually easy to  talk with is a doctor in this  sort of way? Most of Sikh alone  people have actually suffered  if they share details about  their story. If they explain  this sort of thing, then you  can tell who is real and who is  not real in this sort of way.  And this is very you will  listen to the experts not to  the otherwise because there is  a comparative greater  perception that these people  are the experts. When you have  questions, you do not turn to  random influencer, you turn to  people who you perceive are  compared to more knowledge. Do  you, than this, but secondly,  they say, oh there is incentive  to homogenize the sort of  thing. I want to say two  things. There is actually, I  actually want to say the basic  thing. There is not true. This  is, there is a to diversify  different terms to describe  different experiences. Why?  Because one, many people simply  want to feel different. They  want to push that their  experience is not identical to  other people. They want to  create nuances in their own  experience in comparison to the  experience of other people.  Also, secondly, there are  people who are quality, who  understand this stuff, without  you know, there is no  homogeneous sort of way. We  provide you. Listen to those  people. This should be the win  from closing opposition voters.  We think the opposition for  that speech and that brings us  now to the end of the round. Uh  cross house, shake hands, and  yeah, thank you so much. Uh,  thankfully for us, this is a  blind round, sadly for you.  And, yeah, the, best of luck in  your 