Video Link: https://youtu.be/BjPXNr9Jf0Y

Video Motion: This House Opposes the pressure to focus on promoting one's career at the expense of forming a family.

Video Title: Belgrade WUDC 2022 Round 9 Room 2

Transcript:
 all speakers again, that as you  know, you are encouraged as per  the judging manual, to take  three POIs across each team,  and to take one POI per  speaker. Failure to do so may  be persecuted as a lack of  engagement and this may affect  our deliberation. Without  further ado, to invite the  Prime Minister to open the case  that stands in opening  government's name. Here here  Hi, just confirming that I'm  audible and visible. Yes, I  confirmed that you're audible  and visible. Thank you. Thank  you. So, before I start my  speech, since this is being  streamed, I would just like to  say that this is comparative  debating and my views do not  reflect any of my current past  or future employers. So, just  make gaining all the way. He's  just competitive rating just on  the basis of that. Alright. So,  I'll start my speech in three,  two, one. The rise of hustle  culture and the annoying social  media that is LinkedIn has led  to more sadness than happiness  in the world and that's what  opening government is going to  prove today. What we want is  very simple. We do not, we  oppose the pressure to focus on  promoting one's career at the  expense of forming a family.  This means that in order to  counteract that, if there are  narratives that promotes the  idea of family that provides  importance to the concept of  family, that promotes the  importance that you need to go  back to your home, spend time  with your family, have a good  relationship with your kids,  fans and so on and so forth. We  are more than happy to promote  these that counteract these the  the forces that exist in terms  of that but most importantly we  oppose the narrative that your  career needs to take priority  at the expense of your family  and that's the most important  thing within this debate we  stand for a world but that does  not exist we stand for a world  where it's more normalized in a  lot of ways to either  prioritize your family some  people would obviously be  prioritizing career over  family. We think that's  acceptable. But for the vast  majority of individuals it's  important what social narrative  exists and so on and so forth.  A few things in opening  government. Firstly I'm going  to prove to you why is it that  in a lot of why is it that our  our side of the topic gives you  more fulfillment generally  secondly I'm going to talk  about even if it gives like  even if it gets equal level of  fulfillment to equal number of  people, why? Interpersonal  fulfillment is better than  materialistic fulfillment,  something that we promote in  the personal fulfillment in our  world and lastly, I'm going to  prove why our narrative leads  to better work, work culture  within corporations and within  like workplaces more generally  for everyone and that's a net  benefit for everyone. So,  firstly, assuming that both  pursuits give you fulfill  because obviously your career  gives you some level of  fulfillment. Obviously, your  your life with your family also  gives you fulfillment. Why is  it that under our world, more  people have access to that  fulfillment because the framing  here is very important. If you  create a social narrative, when  you say that, oh, you need to  pursue your career at the  expense of your family. What  you're saying is someone who is  pursuing their career at the  expense of their family and  getting successful at it  deserve a higher status within  society more generally and this  is something that we ought to  go after. At that particular  point in time, someone who then  both like both for family life  or the prioritizes their family  life do not get a same level of  fulfillment because of existing  social narratives. Which means  that there is a trade off in  this particular sense. Why do  we think that when it comes to  fulfillment it is better for  you to better better for you on  the our sides. Number one  because the nature of the  capitalistic system means that  it is a pyramid structure. So  what do I mean by this?  Obviously there are CEOs in  companies. Beyond that you have  vice presidents. Beyond that  you have executives and so on  and so forth. As you move up  the ladder in any career it may  be something like a McDonald's  brand where you start  as a Kashir and then move your  way up to manager. It can be a  big corporation. In any of  these structures, number gets  fewer as you go up, which means  that these positions of  success, these positions of  monetary benefits get  restricted to fewer and fewer  people by design because that's  how capitalism society works  within hierarchical systems  means that the access to that  is barred in a lot of cases. In  comparison, access to family is  far easier because society has  set up generally easier means  through which you can access  and form families. So, for  example, in a lot of  it is access to things like  marriages that are that are  prioritized to a large extent  but also even in like western  societies and stuff, you have  more easily accessible to for  you to gain fulfillment from  this. Number two, because often  times when it comes to  corporations and so on and so  forth, there is an artificial  external barrier that keeps you  from getting success. So, mind  the fact that like women earn  seventy-nine cents to a dollar  that a man earns means that  their exist glass ceilings for  women but also glass ceilings  for particular races,  ethnicities depending on  whether or not you are a  minority and so on and so  forth, subtle racism is still a  thing. Mean, meaning that in a  lot of these cases, the access  to that success is often  restricted to a very few  demographic groups because of  sociopolitical political  happenings that are symmetric  in both sides. Under our world,  you are barred from accessing  under their value  world, you are not bad for  accessing these things because  in a lot of cases, you can  have, you can, you can form a  family which is more accessible  to, to individuals such as  minorities and so on and so  forth. Number three, because in  a lot of cases, when it comes  to capitalistic substructures,  you feel like you're  replaceable, right? Because you  realize that you can be  replaced by someone else.  Oftentimes, you are threatened  to be fired. Often times, you  feel like your work can be done  by someone else often times.  You feel like you are just a  pog in a bigger machine. In  those circumstances, you feel  more replaceable as opposed to  your family where you are an  integral part regardless. You  are regardless of brother, you  are regardless ah sister, you  are regardless someone's a wife  or a husband or a parent or a  child so as to speak and these  are important positions that  you can take which is not true  in the case of corporations or  careers more generally which  means that fulfillment is more  accessible before people.  Before I move on to  materialistic stuff, I'll take  O since the orders I have on.  We're defending the status quo  and yet in the status quo, the  vast majority of people still  get married eventually. Why do  you believe that familiar  on your side of the house to  opt into. No, no, no, no, no,  no, obviously, most people get  married, that's not the problem  and we agree to that, that's  not the problem. The problem  is, where do you derive your  fulfillment from? Do you derive  your fulfillment from the fact  that, oh, I go back to my house  and then I see the, see the,  see, see the face of my partner  and then get happiness out of  that, or do I derive  fulfillment from getting  success in a career, what we  are saying is that, getting  success in a career is far  harder to get, get fulfillment  from that particularly  problematic. Better like  fulfill, materialistic  fulfillment versus  interpersonal. We think in  terms of framing, in  world where you prioritize  careers in on top of family is  where you by default prioritize  materialistic stuff because  what does a career give you? It  gives you money, it gives you  access to a lot of privileges  and benefits that are attached  to careers and so on and so  forth. Which makes it a more  materialistic world than an  interpersonal world. The reason  this is this becomes very  difficult to access in terms of  happiness. Is because of the  simple reason that you judge  yourself on a competitive  scale. Because money, the CEO  has more money than a vice  president, the executive has  less money than a vice  president and so on and so  forth. You keep comparing  yourself and it's very  difficult to  happiness in those  circumstances versus the love  of your family members is  something that is accessible to  everyone. It's easier to access  for everyone and it's something  that is far easier to obtain  more generally which means the  interpersonal fulfillment A is  more easy, easier to obtain but  B, it's easier to fulfill you  because you are not comparing  yourself to anyone, everyone,  all the freaking time because  you are happy with what you  have, you are happy with the  fact that you get to meet your  kids at night, which means  fulfillment of family has no  comparison metric with someone  else that makes you unhappy but  like, like  materialistic fulfillment does.  Lastly why it leads to better  work culture more generally  because we think that a world  in which where there is a  hidden expectation of you to  prioritize your career on top  of your family is a world world  where corporations get away  with not giving you like bonus  payments for extra work. Is a  world where corporations get to  enforce nine to 7, nine to  eight workers instead of nine  to five because that is a norm  that is accepted. In our world,  it's better for you to have  work life balance. The reason,  this is then better for groups  like women is because in both  worlds, it is symmetric that  women have a pressure to  fulfill like things at home and  essentially essentially get  along with a lot of tasks that  are expected out of them Under  our world, careers are more  accessible to them because you  have better war culture  structures that are more  conducive to generally women's  participation within the  economic force. That is  something that is proven and  something that Sajid will  expand upon in post.  I danged a previous speaker for  the verified speech. I would  like to invite the leader of  the opposition to open the case  for opposition. Hey, yeah.  Cool. Can I confirm I'm clearly  audible? Yes, I confirm you're  clearly audible.  starting in three, two, one.  Before I get into instructive  and explain why this is  narrative, it's better for the  individual in society. I want  you to appoint a framing that I  think marginalizes most of the  opening government case. I  don't think this debate is  about opting out on mouse from  relationships or even opting  out to a great degree. I think  on either side of the house,  people are likely to settle  down eventually. The question  is when they do it and if they  do it in a manner that is  optimized for them to derive  all of the benefits from  fulfillment that Sajid inserted  considered to be so important.  Where does this narrative  likely apply? I think this  narrative likely applies and is  most salient in your early  career  when you're starting out, IE,  when your entry level or  relatively early on your  career, IE, middle management  at the absolute most. The  reason why this is the case is  because when you reach your  middle age and are further  along in your career, there is  tons of pressure and relatively  low barrier pressure on you  from external and  countervailing influences to  settle down. This looks like  your internal biological clock  telling you that it won't last  forever and you need to  procreate at a certain point in  order to do so. This looks like  your family and your friends  putting pressure on you not  being an old maid or an old  bachelor and trying to set you  up with different people in  your community. This looks like  the fact that you see other  people in your community  settling  psychosocial pressure to do so.  This looks like the fact that  the vast majority of the world  is religious and religious text  exist in either the world that  tell you your duty is to  procreate. What this means is  that there are pressures that  exist externally to the motion  that eventually push people  towards having a family. And it  also means the pressure on  opposition side, government  side, is to form a family far  earlier and open a government  100% consistency in their  framing when they say they  amplify that narrative. What  our narrative is most salient  at doing is telling you when  you are in your early or middle  career path, it is important to  prioritize the success of  career, working hard and  promoting it in order to attain  stability and derive  fulfillment from whatever you  like to do. In other words, if  you believe familiar  fulfillment is more accessible  and somehow better, it will be  accessible eventually on either  side. The difference is and the  comparative in this debate is  incredibly important. You will  be in more of a position to  enjoy that fulfillment when you  have pressure on you to move  towards prioritizing your  career over prioritizing family  in in the interim. I have two  extensive responses to opening  opposition before I get into  constructive. Firstly, I just  contested as hard to get  fulfillment career. Firstly,  just empirically, there are  broad array of options for work  and they are diversifying every  year as remote work becomes far  more available as provisions  become more diversified as  there are more and more jobs  that exist and in society as we  continue to advance in  technology. Secondly, even if  you don't make it, success  isn't absolute in an absolute  sense. IE, you don't make it to  the top of the corporate  hierarchy and become Michael  Scott. There are tons of  annoying middle managers who  enjoy their jobs empirically,  right? Like, there are so many  Karens who love pushing papers  on their desk and enjoy every  minute of that kind of work.  So, you don't need to be at the  top of the corporate hierarch  drive success from that.  They're just wrong on that  premise. But thirdly, when  there is a pressure narrative  to promote your career, you  have incentives to opt into a  career you like, right? Because  if you are promoting your  career day in and day out and  working very hard on it, you  are likely to take in the  advice from people that you  better be promoting something  that you enjoy or at least  attempt to enjoy it to the best  of your degree. But finally,  this is dubiously comparative,  right? Because in so far as you  can't thrive pleasure from work  because it fluctuates a lot and  economically, the things are  unstable. Relationships often  have highest lows, pleasure in  them is very subjective, and  also proven a minute, they can  often really suck if you're  poor, which is more like there  from the house. Then they say,  when people feel more pressured  to work hard, they'll optimize  in such a way that means that  you don't get family benefits  or something like this. This is  really silly because if you're  optimizing for success, our  narrative is necessarily one  more of a one of balance  because you feel pressure on  promoting your career. It's not  just a narrative about working.  It's a pressure to succeed at  work. This means you likely  accrue a narrative of balance  because the narrative is  oriented around work, success,  IE, succeeding in your career,  you are likely to internalize  messaging like breaks are  important in order for you to  maximally productive. It's  important for you to be doing  something you enjoy in order to  drive pleasure from that kind  of thing. women opting to the  labor force in a massive amount  has just given more benefits in  general. I have no idea why  that's the case. Why do you  make better choices on our side  of the house? I'm going to  start up with the benefits of  the individual. No unframing  when you are young. You have  less dating experience based on  preference aren't fully formed.  You have limited travel and  exposure to different people,  meaning preferences aren't  entirely clear yet. And you  have limited work experience.  You have trouble navigating  specific career paths and have  a lack of information. But  finally and this is the most  critical. You have limited  financial funds, right? Because  you're starting out. You're  working pay attention to it.  And this is critical because it  means provision for your  significant other family is  very hard. What changes on our  side of the at this critical  juncture. It's the most  important impact in the debate  because these are the people  who are the most salient in  terms of impact. If they fail,  then they're **** If they  succeed, then they're great. If  they achieve a medium, then  they're better off. Firstly,  when you're pressured to  promote your career, you're  vastly more likely to consider  long-term prioritization far  more. IE, what additional  education you need? Like going  to law school, opting to a  master's degree, where you want  to live, or moving into an area  with an industry that has jobs  for your specific skill set.  The comparative is you are  likely to feel pressured to  settle down faster. Or if you  already have a family to focus  less on optimizing to be able  to provide for them, find  financially. As an  illustration, this looks like  you're an entry-level employee.  You're more likely to  prioritize a promotion that  comes with relocation over  remaining in the small town you  grew up in and swiping it  multiple times on Tinder. We're  prioritizing a high-earning  career with a path to promotion  over dedicating that one extra  night with your family. It is a  small trade off but it is a  trade off that insulates you  from the worst economic risk  significantly and insulate you  from a lot of problems.  Secondly, you're likely to feel  less pressured to settle down  early. What the countervailing  pressure on Gov does is you  need to prioritize family over  work. This ties you to one  location far more and you are  far stuck in one place and far  more likely to be pressured to  settle down faster. Now, Op  might say, ah, you have more  time to explore your dating  preferences. Even if this is  true, you are far better able  to know what you truly like  when you're a bit older on one  hand. So, we preclude that but  secondly, in so far as you are  financially stable, this is far  more conducive to having a  healthy relationship even if  you end up marrying the wrong  person or something like this.  You know, just far likely to be  happier with them at the point  in which you're financially  stable even if they're not like  100% perfect to your your  soulmate or whatever but  thirdly, the pressure  incentivizes you to actively  seek out information about how  to advance your career path,  right? When you care a lot  about this and you feel  pressured to promote yourself,  you're significantly more  likely to accrue and attract  it. What means toward economic  civilian in a variety of  instances. This means, rather  than going on a fifth Tinder  date, you instead look at and  browse LinkedIn for example.  Instead of, you know, like  doing these kinds of things.  But finally, when you do start  a family, which you're likely  to do on either side, you  likely started in a better  financial position. IE, you  have sunk a good degree of time  into advancing, accruing  paychecks, and savings, and  also the information about how  to save. Which means you are  far more likely to firstly one,  have more financial capital  provide for your children. This  is critical, but have less at  the opt-in point to the  relationship because you're  more financially stable. Before  I impact that, closing. The  pressure to be able to provide  for your family always exists.  People who ignore this pressure  on ours, on your side of the  debate, would probably not be,  would probably not be swayed by  this pressure either. I don't  think they ignore that  pressure, right? I think what  this does is on the margins  make you more likely to  prioritize your career in  junctures when it is critical  in your life when you could be  seduced easily by the siren  song of your narrative on your  side. And I want to make the  comparative very, very clear on  Wang. In either people will set  it on eventually. The question  is whether or not they do it in  a financially stable position.  Our world sets you a  performer's success in terms of  being in a position to have a  family in the first place. So  we're logically prior to all of  those benefits. We also get  less unhappy families, right?  Because you're more financially  stable in general, right? Your  family suffers less even if it  doesn't exist in the first  place. Why is hustle culture  good if you believe this is the  most important flash? Firstly,  you're able to find more  fulfillment. Interpersonal  fulfillment is highly highly  subjective. It's incredibly  unclear whether or not you can  derive pleasure from it. Many  people don't enjoy  relationships. Family can be  incredibly stressful. The  comparative is that the  diversity of Greece is giving a  lot of different options to opt  into even you don't succeed.  But even if you believe family  is more fulfilling, you're able  to experience that fulfillment  to a far greater degree when  you insulate yourself from  economic shocks, instability  far likely. But finally, access  to family is easier. Because a  happy family is easy because  you're really going to be able  to provide for your family.  It's less of a drain on  resources. It takes you down  right on their side. And  there's less stress because  when you're living paycheck to  paycheck, it's harder to derive  fulfillment from that kind of  thing. On the metric of  fulfillment, we clearly win by  proving you opt in at a better  point to family on our side of  the house. But we prove for the  people who need this narrative  the most, it creates the  impetus to the social change  that is the most important.  Incredibly proud to stand  opening up. I thank the  previous speaker for the  verified speech and by the  deputy prime minister to do the  case for opening government.  Hi, am I audible? Yes, I  confirmed that you're audible.  Actually, could I just pause  you for a moment? I I  understand that one of the  wings has dropped off the call,  I'm going to give, oh, your  back. Alright, perfect. Yep,  whenever you're ready, you can  go.  just a bit of water before I  start.  Three, two, one. All are very  quickly going to go out of this  debate. The first thing they  base their case on is this  narrative being prevalent at  early point in time, points in  time. This is because for some  reason you care about your  family later on and you don't  do this naturally early on. The  first response is, presumably,  if they can feel that their  natural forces care about their  family later on, if we increase  that time barrier and like, you  know, accelerate it. If you  care about your family early,  you would also care about their  well being going forward as  well which would create a  natural push for you to earn  money now. So you can pay for  your family going forward. So  if anything there benefits of  like you know having a family  later are symmetric because  that's also an argument why  people would not opt out of  working altogether and would  think about their families  going forward and would want to  earn men money so they can see  their children do well. Number  two, it is not true that you  can just earn or like get a  family randomly after 10 years  of not talking to them and  spending time with them.  Relationships often need work.  So when you start distancing  from your friends or your  brothers and your mothers.  These relationships are often  hard to reverse 10 years down  the line because they have a  new set of experiences which  you can't relate to and  vice-versa. Thirdly, assuming  that this debate is only about  10 years, their comparative has  to be why in those 10 years,  the fulfillment of your career  is inherently better. We've  argued that at any point in  time, even if it is for 5  minutes, the access and the  inherent fulfillment of  capitalistic structures is far  worse regardless of how much  time this is for. First reason  is because of the nature of the  capitalistry structure being a  zero sum game. The second  reason because of artificial  barriers for specific groups of  people like glass ceilings and  racism for minorities. The  third that it's an you feel  it's an individualized struggle  because of the way the  narrative works. You need to  work hard to get better. So you  often ignore structural  barriers that are placed onto  you. And even when you get a  promotion even though you may  feel good for a second about  the fact that you got a  promotion. When you see that  there are 500 other people on  your level and there's so many  years and so much more hard  work to do. You feel exhausted,  you feel part of a wheel that  is never ending. So, true  fulfillment from you feels  unheard of because you are  replaceable and you are just  another person in the wheel.  The only response to all of  this analysis from PM is what  is becoming more available?  Assertive assertion at best. I  would argue work is becoming  less available because of the  natural trend of technology  advancing. With things like  automation slowly replacing  labor with the dependence on  human capital being replaced by  artificial technological  capital, the need for humans is  at an all time low. The second  thing they say is, but you  still judge yourself basis the  fact that you struggle with no  actual analysis of how you  judge yourself basis that you  always compare. That's why I  feel bad about the fact that I  haven't won worlds. Despite the  fact that I've still one of the  best debaters of my region.  That's why the basis of  comparison is always better  when you have an individualized  privatized family. Where your  child is your own and you take  ownership over that child or  the fact that your brother is  your own and you don't have to  share. The fact that humans  don't like sharing is an  inherent trait of humans that  meets capitalistic struggles  far worse to derive fulfillment  from. The last thing they say  is under this point is there is  always a you know a natural  incentive to take breaks like  five minutes like guys this is  mitigatory at best. You will  only take those five minutes  breaks at a point in time where  it is a conduit for you to  recharge and work. So in those  five minutes you are always  thinking about what to begin  with. But like guys we should  take breaks for like 10 hours  day, not 5 minutes, you only  compare yourself to the next  person. So, moment you see that  someone else is better than  you, you have an incentive to  cut this break short. Mental  health deteriorates far more  than it should. The next thing  they say is, you always go to  make short term trade like long  term trade offs and make a lot  of short-term costs in the  process. Like the fact that  you'll be stuck in one place  which will harm your career.  The first thing I would  positives, this norm, uniformly  applies. So, all people  presumably start thinking about  their family to a greater  degree. At this point in time,  your competition for these  spots is worsened out or evened  out equally. So, even if you  think about that one spot less,  others think about it less as  well. So, your ability to  compete for spots is equal on  both sides and is symmetric.  Number two, I would argue early  rushing for success in your  career is just objectively bad.  The first reason is because it  is unclear they have proven  that the access to this success  exist for most people. So, this  argument is only valuable. If  they prove more people get  short term success. Success is  more difficult the moment you  make the time span even  shorter. Like how many of us  are going to earn a million  dollars in five years? Which is  presumably what most debaters  would get fulfillment from. The  second is the artificial  barriers to short term success.  Things like age. Things like  you don't have a degree from  Harvard. So you need 10 to 15  years to get that success.  Those make short term success  even more difficult. Lastly,  even if you get short term  success. Best case scenario.  You earn a million dollars in  five years. would argue that  this success is bad. This is  because your success is  measured through capitalistic  means. IE, the amount of money  you've earned in that short  term span of time within five  years. Often you get locked  into specific skill sets and  careers that are bad for you in  the long run to start that  family that you want so very  dearly at the age of  thirty-five. So, when you  become an investment banker and  your desired work, life hours  are 18 hours a day. The moment  you move up to a more senior  position within that investment  bank, that pressure increases.  You saw investment banking as  the quickest success mechanism  or the quickest way for you to  earn money without factoring in  your family and the fact that  it may have long term costs on  your family. So, career choices  that often prioritize short  term success often become the  biggest deadlocks to having a  family in the long run. Which  is why short term success is so  very powerful. If anything were  happen to trade this off,  because we've again proven with  no response that the access to  fulfillment is greater and the  inherent fulfillment because  you don't measure yourself to a  common metric of money but  through individualized  personalized relationships that  other people cannot take  ownership over. The ability to  get fulfilled is better. Before  further positive material, I'll  take OO. Yeah, look. In the  developing world and in  minority communities, which  often tend to have this  narrative far stronger due to  the fact being a more  conservative, they're often  more religious things like the  patriarchy exist. These  narratives are far more  salient, which means that women  lose their defense mechanisms  say, I'm focusing on it. Why  does this get her better, get  better for women? Their  inherent incentives to include  women the workforce regardless.  First, you want to maximize  output as an economy. All  politicians don't want 50% of  their labour force to be like,  you know, completely unused at  home. This is the exact reason  why the most conservative  societies like Bangladesh,  Malaysia have included the  greatest number of women in the  workforce with things like the  garments industry being  completely dominated by female  labour at a point in time where  you needed that labor to make  this the most important  industry of Bangladesh. At a  point in time where there is a  natural incentive to include  women at work, what becomes  perverse for women is when they  have to prioritize the work  life culture and the things  that men need to do like stay  at home ah stay at work till  late or not take pregnancy  leaves because that's the  natural demand. You have to  hustle. You have to get the  quickest success in the  shortest amount of time. The  ability to negotiate for things  like daycare centres and the  ability to have pregnancy  leaves happens when family is a  prioritized narrative and all  of them can collectivize and  demand for it. Time's up that  shows women are better served  in world because there is a  natural incentive to include  them regardless. Very glad to  win this debate. I don't know  the previous speaker for the  verifying speech. I would like  to invite the deputy leader of  the opposition to close the top  half of this debate. Yeah,  yeah.  Thank you. Great. For POIs,  please put them at the in the  chat. Don't verbally interrupt  me because it throws me off my  game. Um Matt, can you do me a  favor and put some water into  this?  Three to art which I'm just  making sure, yeah, I have all  my notes, great. Three two,  This is the third time I've  gone up against Sajid and  Soradev at this comp and I  think it's safe to say that the  phrase an old dog can learn new  tricks is fundamentally false.  Let's get into dismantling  their case and explain to you  why I win from DLO. Firstly, a  bit of weight. If there's a  pressure on either side, why is  our kind of pressure better and  more fulfilling and you  outweigh for our side? IE the  pressure to start a career over  family? Let's dismantle what OG  says first. One that there's a  hierarchy in capitalism. So,  there are fewer and fewer  position and you feel like  you're part of a wheel. Sure.  But they don't respond to maths  analysis which is you can still  find fulfillment not in the  absolute but relatively. That  is to say you can find  happiness in getting promoted.  Even if you aren't the CEO. Or  the little dopamine hits that  actually exist within the job  in and of itself. But also note  and this is important. The  pressure to focus on a career  means the grind feels less ****  because you believe it is  something meaningful. On either  side note you have to work. If  you are told it is fulfilling  it artificially makes you feel  like it is worthwhile. What and  this is critical. What makes  you feel fulfillment is  socially constructed and  malleable. If we tell people  the things that they inevitably  have to do in the workplace or  something they ought to be  fulfilled by, it's it  essentially like short circuits  the reasons not to feel good  about it. But families are more  accessible and they make you  feel less replaceable. This is  particularly why you don't need  a pressure to focus on family.  Because it's so much more  accessible for all of the  reasons they give you. And  there's low barriers of entry  to doing it. So in other words,  it is likely that it still  accessible and they still  ground you and provide the good  source of like euphoria and  reinforcement that you  otherwise need. But thirdly  they say glass ceilings and  it's largely restricted. Note  this pressure counteracts these  restrictive narratives and  culture. And these structures.  The pressure being distributed  across all people on our side  with this narrative means you  create incentives for society  to provide information about  how to advance. Because our  narrative creates a common  struggle that now everybody  opts into. You get more  webinars about how I made it.  As an illustration this looks  like minority telling their  children, you must work very  hard to advance or you're ****  This pushes you to break glass  ceilings and get the benefits.  Or you have more women going to  positions of power that provide  more opportunities and  information to other women. IEC  previous paths of the girl  bosses navigating those tough  decisions and trade offs. I  think my minorities are likely  the ones under most pressure  from Gov's narrative, right?  Because minority communities  tend to be more conservative,  often more religious, and the  narrative is far more and more  far more salient among them.  The same with the pressure on  women. What this means that  women and minorities are the  most likely to self-select out  on their sides that they work  less. When they work less, the  white men who experience  narrative to differential  degrees are likely to take up  more of those positions. This  means that when there are far,  far fewer women and minorities  in the workforce, they cannot  collectivite to the same  degree. When a company has 40%  workforce, that is women,  you're obviously far more  likely to get better corporate  policy. On their side and they  can see this people, especially  women are far more likely to  opt out of work at the critical  junctures where they needed to  be working more. But also in  the developing world, where the  pressure is to settle down and  focus on your family are over  well me. This is the  countervailing narrative that  women who don't want to settle  down as a defense against their  conservative parents. They say  I cannot. I'm focusing on my  career right now that everybody  in society tells me is valuable  and I ought to be doing. The  response to their inherent  incentives to include women in  the economy on either side.  Yes, but they selectively opt  out far more based on the  narratives that they consume.  And for women who really don't  want families, they lose at  their defense mechanism that  they can otherwise tell their  their family. This is how you  get policies like maternity  leave, like anti-discrimination  because my noise are form  formal represented at every  stage in the corporate ladder.  Secondarily, on on pressure,  the pressure for success means  you create avenues to succeed,  which means you create pressure  on companies to find more clear  paths to success and and  information about what is  needed to succeed. And thirdly,  the pressure to form one's  career, generally speaking,  means when more people are  career oriented, what this does  it creates pressure on society  to provide things otherwise  like childcare, etcetera,  because people say, I need to  focus on my career, and I need  to have something to make sure  my child doesn't otherwise  starve. So I think at the very  least, if don't buy the flip,  you buy everything else that I  just gave you. Let me give you  some reasons why we outweigh  that. If you buy nothing else  that I've said. If there's some  trade-off unfulfillment, it's  better to have this pressure  and career that more likely to  gain fulfillment when  prioritizing your career.  Assuming we don't know  everybody's preferences and  which choice will maximize  their outcomes. One, a career  is a clear and measurable  criteria. It's clear to know  what you have to do to pressure  to to essentially progress  along that line. The  competitive is this, there is  no clear criteria to to to get  fulfillment out of the family.  Every family different.  Secondarily of substantially  more information. IE, you can  look at previous people in the  Korea and what they did to  succeed. It's the same playing  field. The comparative is on on  on everybody's path to a family  is different because every  human being is different.  Whereas careers follow similar  structures based on the  institution that form it. But  secondarily, it likely fulfills  a wider set of preferences  because it's oriented around  individual passions that  everybody has and money which  is a prerequisite to agency and  the ability for somebody to  exist in a capitalist society.  But thirdly, it's comparatively  more within your control. I, if  forming a family and dating  relies on somebody else's  actions and preferences that  you cannot control. Yes, it's  hard to exist on with other  people like your boss but you  can control your own action and  the way you improve from the  previous point. The impacts of  all this is that in the  process, we don't know how many  people will succeed on either  starting the family that they  want or the career they want or  what their preference are and  if they will be happy with  their choices on either side.  But it is comparatively more  likely when you base your  fulfillment on the criteria I  just gave you. It is a clearer  blueprint to getting that  utility and fulfillment because  it provides a clear measurable  criteria and all of the things  that I said before. But even if  you buy none of that and you  think family is the only way  people can be happy. I'm going  to explain to you why in this  section even if you believe  family is just going to be more  fulfilling. You are better  suited to start a family that  is more fulfilling to you on  our side. On either side you  likely start a family or a  pressure too for the reasons  Matt Cave and CG agree with.  Now Bill might say ah you can  maybe experiment more. Dedicate  much more time to dating. I  don't think this matters that  much because you can to some  extent, people within your  Korean find out what you like  and don't like from dating on  our side. But before explaining  more of that, I'll take CG  quickly. CG, do you have a PI?  Yeah, Ahmed, could you please  explain to me what's more  important to a kid? Having  their father give them more  attention or having 10000 more  dollars when they inherit. This  is beautiful because this part  right now, I'm going to explain  to why the father is more  suited to be able to play catch  with his kid. Look, on op, even  if you don't buy that, why is a  better financial and career  position or dedicating more  time to your career means  you're a more to get a better  family. That give you a bunch  of reasons but here's why the  decision in career matter in  particular for creating a  happier family that allows it  to be more fulfilling. Which  responds to just POI. Finances  dictate the conditions for love  and how much of a family person  you can be. Affording the  bills, having health insurance,  not fighting, creating a  divorce for little Timmy. Love  cannot thrive if the conditions  for it do not exist. But  secondarily this is critical.  You have more information about  what you want out of your  career. Do you enjoy it? Do you  really want that promotion  after spending 10 years in it?  on your career more. It means  you have more security and  information about how much of  your life you want your career  to consume. where you want to  live, and what trade offs you  want to make for your family.  It is better that people  prioritize their career up to  the age of 30 or 40 before they  have to start a family. Then  once they change their minds  after they've started a family.  So we essentially short circuit  all of Gov's analysis and take  it. I'll **** all of the dinos  included, Matt. Lucky  I thanked the previous speaker  for the speech. Would like to  remind them that I'm also a  dino. Um I'd like to invite the  member of government to open  the second half of this debate.  They're here.  Hello. Hi. I hope you can hear  me. I'm also a rhino. I will  not insult anyone.  Okay. Some as far as speeching.  Three, two, one. Panel, I think  there is a great reason behind  why kids that are coming from  extremely like rich, privileged  and career-oriented parents are  often the most depressed cohort  there are. And I do believe  that this narrative pushes  parents behave in awful ways.  In the end, harming the kids  the most. I think so far, top  half has been when how does  this affect people who are in  the workforce or who are out?  However, I don't think they are  actually the biggest  stakeholder that we should care  about because primarily, I do  want you the ones which to some  extent having the agency to  choose whether they want to  respect this narrative or not.  I don't think kids of these  parents, right? Have the same  agency and that's why our  impacts are going to be solely  focused on them and that's why  I do believe we will win this  debate. Prior to going to my  arguments, I just want to do a  bit of weighing  points out, almost all of their  benefits are dependent on  people not having kids because  of this narrative, right? And I  think this is just foolish As  all points out, there's still  many many other persons who  have kids. And I don't think, I  truly do not think that outside  of the bank plan, any parent  decided to not have a kids,  primarily because of this  charity, right? But mostly to  some extent, right? If this  premise is not correct, part of  their impact, which is do not  stand, right? Second level of  impact that they have the  workers, right? I do believe  this is correct and just fine.  However, what has happened when  the culture of company is good,  right? A bunch of extremely  family-friendly companies to  some extent and they do it  because of selfish interest  because they want to keep  workers which are valuing  family at the courtplace,  right? So, that's why I don't  believe bunch of OO scams  actually do occur if these two  instances that I mentioned are  not fulfilled, right? That's  why we'll focus on the internal  questions which everyone feels  even regardless of the fact,  webinar companies,  family-friendly houses.  alright. No this is all of  their claims are contingent on  the fact that the alternative  is people having kids very  early. Notice that they almost  never provide an explanation  for this. They just assert it.  Here's why it is very unlikely  in the alternative world people  will have kids when they're  like twenty, right? First of  all, let us bond to our culture  of the woman. It's incredibly  individualistic, right? We  want to experience the world  for ourselves, right? Like we  want to travel, we want to see  the world. That is something  that is very incompatible with  kids. That's why when like  majority of 20 somethings do  not have kids at the moment but  secondly, the visit to Swamix  and this is financially almost  impossible. This is PUI, the  Josie aspect. If I'm twenty,  right? I'm not an idiot and I  want for my kid to have a good  future, right? I see at the  moment that that's not  something which is financially  responsible to do. That's why I  will not have kids very very  early. So, to some extent,  right? Bunch of all of us harm  just do not occur because  they're alternative. It was  asserted. Never explained. I  think the likely alternative is  people still have kids when  they're about 25 or 30. Like  any other bunnies and startup  30s, right? So, some extent, I  don't believe they are okay,  wasn't actually is our case,  right? I think we'll have a  very simple claim. People are  worse parents because of these  narratives and kids are suffer  a lot, right? Because as we  said, and I think like, oh, oh,  kind of considered, right?  People will have kids anyway,  and they will need to work  anyway, because very often,  it's something which is  financially responsible, and  because bunch of us actually do  want to fulfill ourselves to  work, right? I didn't just  completely find to save, right?  But what happens, when I know,  the people at my job,  fundamentally think, that to  some extent, me having family  is incompatible with me  advancing in the workforce. I  think first, if I, I get  paranoid, right? I get and my  colleagues and my boss will  gossip around this side. I get  paranoid with my boss. We  perceive me as someone who is  less worthy of promotion  exactly because I'm maybe not  that's loyal to the company,  right? Maybe I value my family  far more than my job post  fight. To some extent, right?  This is a fear which is very  internal, right? It can be very  irrational, right? Aeroplane is  not even on your company  actually being treated. But  just on the fact that because  of this narrative, bunch of  people fundamentally get  paranoid because all of us  actually want to like succeed  other job posts or or says  right? And in the moment when  I'm paranoid I I will likely to  overcome the impacts related.  But second of all I know that  very often when you don't  succeed and you have family  right? You start to think that  maybe the reason why you did  not succeed or get that  promotion was exactly because  of your family right? Exactly  because you had a family which  means and shows that you're not  maybe dead or dedicated to your  job right? This is something  which like often is just not  true right? Often you're not  promoted because one of your  other like Christmas right? But  people often seek the easiest  explanation nations would push  the responsibility away from  them, right? And this narrative  is just like a perfect mind to  basically say, no, I am like I  was looking with it exactly  because of my family. What are  the impacts of this, right?  Firstly, you're internally  pressured to fundamentally work  more and spend less time with  your family, right? Because you  want to overcompensate the fact  that you have a family and  you're constantly afraid that  you're boss does not perceive  you as good enough,  right? This is why very often  like you will work like long  hours. You'll miss birthday  parties. If you want to trips,  right? Very often even when  you're on vacation still be  responding to emails, right?  But I know this is very often  this the like biggest  impact of this is not like  fundamentally on you but it is  on the kids, right? The kids  who very often like, yeah, I  grew up with bunch of money.  But Brafton grew up being  raised by their nannies. I very  often grew up thinking that  their parents fundamentally do  not love them because they did  not spend that much time with  them. So this is very often a  belief  which funds in you and  basically isn't great when  you're like six or seven,  right? Exactly because you  don't see your parents, right?  Your assumption is that very  often they don't think that  you're working on their  company, right? Do they  prioritizing your job is that  actually love their job far  more, right? This means that  when the kids grow up, right?  This  fundamentally creates more  tensions, more fighting, and  more emotionally unstable kids,  right? Because they don't have  the fundamental self-confidence  that their parents thought that  they were working a lot and of  attention and I do believe the  harm of this is just so ****  huge on the psyche of the game.  Second of all, there isn't very  often parents also have a  silence like resentment towards  their own kids, right?  Specifically, women if they  don't succeed at the about  right? But very often, if they  don't succeed, they feel the  reason why they did not succeed  is because they're kids, right?  So, they're far more likely to  raise tensions with their kids  because very often they will  proceed that the kids just do  not see the amount of  sacrifices that they give for  them, right? I sacrifice my  like promotion at my work  because I had a family, right?  This again creates much more  ground for attentions and with  bad pet and we look bad like  parents in like relationships,  right? And this also harms  kids, right? But doing a  certain thing, you don't feel  shame like dirt in your life,  right? Because to some extent,  like,  succeed and you're like 45 and  an executive, right? You don't  have to just need to spend less  time at work, right? But not  that very often when you  actually now, at 45 or 50,  actually want to engage with  your kids, right?  from you right? I like  alienated from you, right? They  very often feel huge amount of  like remorse over you, right?  This is when all the shame  kind of kicks in, right? This  is where you basically are  likely to feel that you are,  okay, basically age with the  father, right? And this is  where again the Christ up again  because I don't want to feel  like I'm a city father, right?  I need to come up with other  narratives which I will kind of  justify to myself and the  narrative is I will perceive my  kids as ungrateful, right? How  can you not be grateful for all  the sacrifices and all the  money that I get you? this  creates I guess shame also in  kids, right? Because they don't  feel that their parents  actually understands the amount  of harm that was done to them  because the parent prioritizes  work all the time. Look, I  don't think the biggest car if  I do this narrative will be on  me. It will be on my kids and  that is something that should  matter the most in this debate.  Very proud of course.  for the verifying speech, I  would like to invite the member  of opposition to continue the  case for opposition. Hey, yeah.  Hi, can you hear me well? Yep,  I can hear you well. Wonderful.  Three, two I'm going to first  offer two responses to clothing  government then go into our  constructed. One, the idea that  people will massively overwork  themselves and never see their  kids. Uh I would pause that the  first response to this is a  reality check. Most people  don't work in management  consulting and corporate law.  They work in jobs that have  upper limits on their time that  probably are not easy to  combine fully with family but  not impossible in the manner  that closing out government  characterizes. Meaning that the  issue is significantly less  impactful than they flag. The  second thing I deposit is that  to the degree that you still  have to work and presumably  have to work at least like one  parent will have to work a  reasonable amount is the  resentment that they flag to is  that they draw a lot of the  remaining material from is  probably status quo and so far  as if you on government go home  earlier to spend time with your  kids you still observe that the  guy who doesn't have a kid and  who therefore wish they longer  got promoted over you and I'm  just going to be real with you.  I think people are smart enough  to observe that distinction and  still resent their kids. So, I,  unfortunately, I just don't  think that claim was  comparative. Moreover, though,  I think that all of our  material will respond directly  to the notion of work-life  balance and in particular,  making work with having a  healthy family life at which  point presumably just on  quantity of cases affected. We  are also because making the  decision less urgent for people  given that they will still have  to engage in the labor market  is probably more significant  than their material. I want to  talk about two constructive  points. about the experience of  young women and girls and  secondly about specifically  fixing the situation that  current labourer situation is  just incredibly poorly suited  to the demands of working  families in particular with  working parents and of young  women and girls. Matt here says  they'll get degrees more. Um  and also says something for the  same effect in DLO speech. I  want to actually characterise  what the comparative on this  looks Why it is so much more  like than just getting the  degree but rather becoming the  kind of person who could even  make like properly evaluated  choices on whether a degree is  right for you. Framing. Having  a career isn't the same as  having a job.  that this is that, how does  your work-life balance get  better? Once women have to  balance both at home duties and  at work duties. I'll get on to  that but also broadly, I think  there's just lots of reason why  this is a universal pressure.  I'm genuinely unclear why this  pressure unless it was actually  analyzed in either team doesn't  apply to women. Cool. Let's go  into why you improve work-life  balance. OO for impact here is  incredibly individualistic. It  is true. Someone who is  successful in a career can  probably get themselves private  child care and therefore,  amelia their own situation.  What we're going to prove to  you is why the overall  situation on work like family  compatibility gets better. Two  elements here. One, people  desire family. I think babies  are cute. I think you see  families around yourself but  also they're just present in  lots of cultural narratives  etcetera blah blah blah. And so  far as it's incredibly  unifying. On proposition  people, your family and want to  prioritise that will not  progress to positions of power  because they will prioritise  family and therefore not get  promoted. Because they're out  competed on time spent at work.  also there's a snowball thing  where as you have more people  who don't value family as much  at the top that means that they  also don't want to hire people  who value family very much. I  think that means that you have  a situation where stays badly  suited for the modern family  situation of having both  parents work in Safari as we  know to working parents means  in status quo. There's limited  ability to ensure childcare if  you don't have a lot of money.  You have you can't respond to  child emergencies. You can't  spend a lot of time around them  by having remote work. That  means But the vast majority of  people whether they are  successful in the career or  not, cannot meaningfully  combine their career with a  family. On opposition, I think  they succeed more because you  work and you still prioritize  your career even if you still  love a family and you would  want that. Because that is  something that has been brought  into you. But crucially, I  think at one point, at least a  decent number of those people  will still have families and  will still want to prioritize  them. You know, you care about  that because you feel a pain  because at the point where you  have a kid and you are aren't  able to spend time with them,  you miss them and you like like  the fact that you aren't able  to do so. That is something  that means that within your own  context, once you have actually  progressed up a career ladder  and you have some power and  leverage in a company and so  far as you set policy, you  implement that so that it  applies to yourself. But  secondly, you are aware and  understanding of the fact that  it is important for other  people because you want to have  happy employees. You want to be  an attractive workplace. You  want to make sure that people  are actually happy for you. You  understand how important that  combine and work. That means  that this change trickles down  even to the people who don't  have successful careers.  Meaning they are able to have  and eat it too at the point  where work life structures  actually adapt which they never  do on guide because people get  sorted out of progressing. For  all those reasons, please vote  closing opposition. Hi, Diana  Privas Beacon, one of the the  the the the the the our  Okay. Starting my speech in  two, one. Panel, first summer  building, then weighing to top  half. And then rebuttal of a  closing, then weighing us  against top half. Let's, let's  first start with revolt,  because the rebuttal we hear is  basically that the idea that  people massively overwork  themselves needs to be reality  checked because people have  upper limits, not a couple of  things here. First of all, even  people that don't work like the  McKenzie type jobs, often in  status quo, have to work  multiple jobs because they're  low-paying, oftentimes, have to  work **** shifts, like nurses,  for example, working night  shifts, prioritizing their job,  etcetera for income, it is up,  it not clear to me that it's  only these up pressure on jobs  that apply to our to our  analysis. Presumably the  majority of jobs in today's  workforce require some amount  of overtime. Notice however  that if they don't and you  naturally have all this over  time to spend on your family  then presumably the impact of  the narrative itself is also  just not that important on  either side of the debate.  Notice if even even if it only  applies to those highest level  jobs it is ultimately that's  why those the children of you  know upper middle management  not matter in the state. That  is not by closing opposition.  Note finally that according to  opening opposition the whole  point of the narrative  according to them people do  maximize how much money they  have. It is advanced somewhat  intention with closing with  opening opposition and at worst  potentially in life. I don't  think it's actually a knife.  But there is some question on  what extent that then actually  applies and it is you know  disagrees with the opening  opposition told us. It's the  primary thing opposition wants.  Next however SEO is essentially  adds further mechanisms and  characterizations to opening  oppositions about how this  impacts women and girls. Two  things on this. First of all,  most of those acts are unclear  why they act specifically from  the Royal Female. It is unclear  to us that this narrative only  applies to women. Presumably it  also applies to men. But even  if it applies more to women it  is unclear why this is the  narrative that does it as  opposed to any of the other  narratives female empowerment  in status quo. It is necessary  for closing opposition to  actually explain that to us.  Maybe in the next speech. I  don't know. Hopefully they'll  take a POI from us if they  engage with that because right  now I don't have the chance to.  However I'm incredibly happy  that cat found fulfillment in  mathematics. Really I am. She's  a good friend and her happiness  is my happiness. That being  said it is not clear to me why  she wouldn't have found  happiness and mathematics on  either side regardless of the  pressure to work or not. That  while anecdotally very  persuasive, it does not  inherently stem from from the  motion itself. It is necessary  for them to link that to us. So  far, it hasn't been linked. So,  I'm not clear on why I should  evaluate that more highly than  the significant impact on  children that Martella lets you  in terms of why it's likely  that parents are going to be  more abusive to them because  you know, they're the they're  to blame for their lack of  success in life potentially to  them just generally children  feel unloved because they're  not prioritized and actively  feel that prioritize. Third,  that because this is something  you've internalized overall,  you know, 10 years of your  career, you're very likely to  actually, because you've  become, you've gotten used to  it, and because you've  conditioned yourself to  primary, to prioritize work  consistently, and because of  the, the narrative of this  pressure  But that also translates into  how you how you rear your  children. Even if you're doing  all of this purely with the  intent of being the best parent  possible later down in life. It  is still like clear that this  actually makes you a worse  parent down the line. Opening  opposition wants to clash on  that. We are logically prior to  every claim your case makes.  The time and resource trade off  you put in towards attempting  to form a family on your side  makes it far harder at the  planet with your family.  Exemption stability by virtue  of you working longer on our  side and having more time to  figure out what trade offs you  want. 18 seconds. That's 15  seconds. No you're not  logically prior. Using a fancy  word does not make a true math.  Let's be very clear.  POITU that highlights that  presumably people aren't  idiots. People want to people  who really care about having  families. Presumably want to  have you know the necessary  financial means to actually  give to their children, you  know, food, shelter, clothing,  presumably these kinds of  mechanisms exist either way.  People who actually go through  with having children at 18  before they have any financial  prospect probably aren't  impacted by this narrative on  either side of the debate  because these people already  are rate is good. They  presumably they make that  choice. Regardless people  change on the set of the  debate. Most people actually be  impacted by this narrative on  the side of the debate aren't  people that definitely don't  want to have children, aren't  people that definitely want  children. It's the people on  the margins in the middle that  actually have the impact that  you claim they will. They the  people that actually make the  tangible changes based on this  narrative you claim and you  don't actually persuade me at  any point in your speeches. Why  you know you're inherent more  like that you select all these  things. Let's then weigh us  against opening in general,  right? Because I think the  first thing to note is that  OG's impacts squarely fall  under what is good for the  people making these choices,  right? Our impact swirls on  what benefits the children. Oh,  OG RO. I already took y'all  taxio later. Uh our impact is  therefore more important  because note that in top half,  I'm not going to say it's a  deadlock because probably like  it's probably someone is  winning it but there is  ultimately both of them have  that and both sides will have  families. On both sides we'll  have jobs. On both sides we'll  want to do generally what's  best to them. But what we  explain in closing government  is that the narrative of  pushing yourself to prioritize  work at the extent of your  family is something that  trickles down into everyday  decision making. That actually  makes changes the way we behave  towards your children. Both  explicitly and implicitly in  terms of just your general  behavior of the prioritizing  your kids at the expense of  your work. This kind of  narrative harms your child's is  conceptual confidence, less  loved, make them feel that they  are not really wanted. Before I  continue closing. So, Kat  explains to you why having  people who who think families  are important, be at the top of  the letter, makes it easier for  everyone to have both. We can't  extension. Yeah, that's because  people who think that that  families are important are  probably not the most likely to  be at the top of the chain. You  don't actually prove that to us  in your extension. You won't  have your side of the debate  that the women who makes the  top of the of the career ladder  are the ones who prioritize  families to the extent  simultaneously claimed.  Presumably those the the women  who prioritize family the most  will probably have more  conservative values, more  religious values, dialogue, all  the stuff that OO actually  ironically explains to you know  presumably prioritize that even  on top, even if this narrative  exists in society. Meaning that  at that point, if that's your  comparative, I'm just unclear  on why those are the most  likely. In fact, you're  significantly more likely to  probably have women who  deprioritize family on both  sides of the debate and they're  then actually less likely to  want to promote women who want  to create because they  themselves also deprioritize  that, meaning that they see it  as a more acceptable trade-off  and therefore are less likely  to want to make that trade off.  Ultimately we come over opening  over top of specifically  because our impact regardless  of work happens, the  prioritization of family  happens, it doesn't matter.  Ultimately, the children who  otherwise would not have the  best possible parenting are  **** are more **** under  offset, are less happy, are  less fulfilled, have worse  attachments to their parents,  and are generally less happy.  They don't have a choice in  being born. Parents have a  choice in giving birth, proud  to stand in closing government.  Hi, dying the previous speaker  for the Gravine Speech and I  would like to invite the  closing opposition with to  close the debate as a whole.  Can you please confirm that I'm  audible? Yep. Okay, I will  start my speech in three, two,  one. Panel, I will start with  old and radical claim. If a  motion does not it probably  refers to society that it  doesn't only affect 50% of it  or 49 or however many men are.  But it probably also ****  applies to women. So I actually  find it quite offensive. Both  government teams for some  reason think it's good rebuttal  to say oh but why narrative  change how women  Understood being by pretty much  all average intelligent voters  that if family is something  that is important, the vast  majority of the work falls on  women because of childbearing,  because of childcare, because  men can't really lactate, but  also because it's just  traditional that women are the  ones who keep the house, and  also because throughout this  debate, it's been thrown around  by both sides that, you know,  men have to provide for their  families. No side of the debate  has fiat, or even attempts to  provide to you, any analysis on  why women would be better off  if family, something that was  put on them. What we do have on  is a lot of empirical evidence  of many many centuries and also  a couple of decades of like  pretty much liberalism and like  do put where we did because we  did we And we're still  significantly more  disadvantaged because they were  told they're only there because  they have to you know to earn a  wage. But they should be  content with being at the  bottom of the ladder. They  shouldn't aspire for it to be  or they shouldn't try to  advance. Because how they get  fulfillment and their role is  at home raising children. That  is why having put on people  even more pressures to raise  children than already exist in  both sides of the of the house  already exists. Presumably is  going to result in either women  feeling those being oppressed  by some ways or simply even if  the men are the ones who hear  it, guess what? It's still  their their female partners who  are probably going to end up  bearing the majority of the  work. So, I actually do think  that what Kat explains to you  that if we tell everyone in  society, they should prioritize  career over family at least in  the beginning of their careers  that probably significantly  affect some girls. already  deals with the fact that they  will probably, you know, go to  university. They think they  need to get a career after that  but what can explains to you  with your life when you are in  your formative years, changes  the way of life. As a woman,  you had to be pretty, you had  to be quiet so that men like  you and so that you would have  a boyfriend because there was  the measure of success. Lucky  for me, I was also raised by  doctors in the family of  intellectuals who pushed me to  be smart because otherwise, I  don't think I would have done  any of the things that I did.  Here's the difference here and  here's why it's important. On  both sides of the house, women  will be under pressure to have  children and to have a family.  On our side of the house, not  only you don't add additional  pressures that puts you on  pressure which acts as a  balance. Which can explains to  you makes it much easier for  you to access all of the other  things that could give you  fulfillment because you are  told it's okay to access  fulfillment from all these  other things. And by the way I  do think this also applies to  men who don't want children or  family. I think those as well.  Um and Kat also gives you  analysis on why there are a lot  more diverse. You are a lot  more likely to seek them out if  you think or so. It's a  fulfilling career. And that is  that's the and you're probably  going to meet a better  financial situation or maybe  some people won't. I don't  however the way that many  people who are in affirmative  years and have a lot of time  think about themselves is going  to change. Now let's look at  what government has been  telling you because like CG Ts  talks a lot about like how you  know just men are never going  to be at home and children are  going to grow up neglected  because their father is never  at home. Like one I am unsure  why more time spent together  necessarily means quality time  like I I'm pretty sure that  most people would rather see  their parents a bit a few hours  less every week if that means  that the hours they do see  their parents has a lot less  financial stress or those  parents aren't coping with  alcohol or God knows what else  because they don't know how  they're going to pay their  bills and they are not just  being mean and miserable to  each other blaming themselves  but that's oh oh so I'm not  going to get more into that I  think OO also beats this I  think what is also important  was what Cat explain you that  the likelihood of you coming  home after dinner in time for  dinner is much much here if the  people who are already who are  going to exist on both sides of  the house just like some people  are going to prioritize to  pursue careers and they are  told it's okay even if you want  a family it's okay to delay it  or it's okay to not prioritize  it it's okay to still go for a  lot of structural reasons why  that means that in some cases  Some of the positions of power  will now be occupied by people  who care about family that  otherwise wouldn't have. Given  that people usually get into  positions of power when they're  like in their 40s or 50s. I  think that is perfectly  compared to stage where they  already have kids even if  they've delayed it as opening  opposition tells you and I  think the announcement cat  gives you and why that probably  means that everyone has more  access to work mic balance is  something that hasn't been  refuted by closing government.  So therefore needs to step in  this debate and needs to be  credited. Opening government do  you have a PY You're yet to  prove why your side has the  most accessible form of  fulfillment. Why women succeed  in this? Okay, yeah. I'm  actually getting it. Why money  is fulfilling? Yeah, look, I'm  not saying money is intrigues  anymore fulfilling. I think  just think OG's view of it is  flawed because they tell you, 1  million dollars in five years  is what most debaters would  get. Well, I assume most of the  world is not 